Updated: May 6, 2016 19:46 IST
Actor Sharman Joshi, who has tried the horror genre for the first time through his latest release 1920 London , says actors should try to challenge themselves by doing a variety of films to entertain audiences in a different way every time.
“I’m not trying to set up any image for myself by doing erotic thrillers.
I just try to take up projects that come my way,” Sharman, who is known for playing sweet and bubbly characters onscreen in films like Rang De Basanti , Golmaal and 3 Idiots , said.
“I love to try different genres.”
The third instalment in the popular 1920 franchise, 1920 London , which released on Friday, is directed by Tinu Suresh Desai.
The story has been written by Vikram Bhatt.
“I really liked the script.
Also, the fact that I haven’t tried this genre before.
I got a strong character to portray,” Sharman said.
Though, he added that Bhatt was “apprehensive” at first to cast him in the role of the exorcist.
Do erotic thrillers set up a negative image of an actor?
Sharman said: “I’m not sure about that.
It’s just my second thriller film after Hate Story 3.
So, I’ll have to go through this whole journey and then decide whether such films create a negative image of an actor or not.
The kind of character I’m playing in 1920 London is a positive guy.”
Interestingly, after 1920 London , Sharman will star in another erotic thriller, Wajah Tum Ho .
“I’m playing the role of a police officer in that one.
That’s also the first time I’ll be seen as a cop onscreen.”
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.