There has been a serious baby boom in Hollywood recently.
In fact, there are so many stars that welcomed new children into their families over the past year that it’s easy to lose track of all of them.
The biggest boom, however, involved new moms.
Here now are 27 famous ladies that are actually celebrating their first Mother's Day this weekend.
The author of The Real Girl's Kitchen and fiancé Matt Rosenberg welcomed their daughter, Ryan Ava Erhard, on May 11, 2015.
Duff missed Mother's Day by one day last year (it was on May 10), so this will officially be her first year celebrating the holiday.
In May 2015, Wilson and her husband, David Caspe, who created Happy Endings , welcomed their first child, Max, and they’re already thinking about another child.
"We both come from two-kid families," the Marry Me actress told Fit Pregnancy .
Photo: Getty Images
The Begin Again actress and her husband of three years, James Righton, became parents on May 25, 2015, when they welcomed a daughter.
A few months later, Knightley was back at work, making her Broadway debut in the thriller, Therese Raquin.
But that didn’t stop the new mom from bringing little Edie on set.
“She would be there like an enlightened spirit of everybody,” co-star Judith Light told ET about meeting the newborn.
On June 25, 2015, the Russian supermodel and boyfriend Adam Cahan added a daughter to their family.
The former Victoria's Secret model kept her daughter, Alaska, a secret from the social media world for about a week before posting a cute photo of her foot.
"Welcome to the world baby Alaska!
Your little feet absolutely rocked my world, I've never been so in love!
[Adam] and I couldn't be more proud," she wrote.
Leah Jenner and her husband, Brandon, added another baby girl to the Kardashian-Jenner clan last summer.
Jenner, who is a singer as well as an occasional guest on Keeping Up With the Kardashians , gave birth to an adorable daughter named Eva James.
"On Wednesday, July 22nd I became a Mom.
It has without a doubt been the most profoundly beautiful time in my life but also emotionally and physically challenging too... and I am so grateful for every second of it," she wrote on Instagram, announcing the birth of her first child.
Photo: Getty Images
The New Girl actress had a big year in 2015.
First, she secretly wed her longtime boyfriend, Jacob Pechenik, and then in July, they had their first child together.
In 2016, Deschanel appeared on The Ellen DeGeneres Show and revealed that she named her daughter, Elsie Otter, after the cute mammal.
"I love animals so much," she told Ellen DeGeneres.
"And we love otters because they're so cute, and playful and fun.
The 47-year-old actress is a single mother and loving life.
On Aug. 27, 2015, she became a mom through a surrogate and immediately took to Instagram upon his arrival to share her joy.
“Introducing the new little man in my life, my son Rockwell Lloyd Liu,” she captioned a photo of her holding her child.
Now Liu can't stop posting photos of her bundle of joy in funny onesies -- and it’s almost too much to handle.
Photo: Getty Images
After secretly tying the knot in February 2014, Meester and husband Adam Brody kept her pregnancy very under wraps.
In September 2015, it was finally confirmed that the Gossip Girl alum was officially a mom.
They welcomed daughter Arlo Day shortly after 12 a.m. on Aug. 4, 2015.
After starring on Brothers & Sisters together, the 30-year-old actress and Dave Annable married in 2010.
Five years later, the Hollywood couple welcomed a beautiful baby girl into the world.
"I took Labor Day quite literally this year.
Dave gave me this blanket on Mother's Day and baby Charlie and I slept with it our entire hospital stay.
Charlie is a lucky lady to have you as a papa, we love you so much [Dave]," the new mother wrote on her Instagram.
It took about a month before the former Glee actress and husband Ryan Dorsey shared the first photo of their son, Josey Hollis.
Born on Sept. 17, 2015, the newborn wasn't seen until Rivera shared a photo of the cutie wearing his first Halloween costume, which was a skeleton.
Now Josey is all over her social media accounts and fans can't get enough of him.
Photo: Getty Images
After welcoming her first child in September 2015, the Suffragette actress decided to announce her daughter's name at the film's New York premiere.
Even though Mulligan and husband Marcus Mumford (of Mumford & Sons) are notoriously very private about their personal lives, Mulligan told ET their daughter's name is Evelyn.
Two months after giving birth to her first child, the actress and model shared her first picture of her son with retired tennis star Andy Roddick on social media.
The sweet snap was of Hank lying on his mom with the caption, "Sundays."
Photo: Getty Images
The world learned all about Giddish's bundle of joy thanks to her Law & Order: SVU co-star, Ice-T, and his wife, Coco Austin.
The actress and husband Lawrence Faulborn became parents to a son named Ludo in October 2015.
Ludi's first picture was, of course, a close-up with his mom and Aunt Coco!
Photo: Getty Images
The Detour actress and husband Travis Schuldt welcomed a beautiful baby girl, Reygan Zea Schuldt, on Oct. 25, 2015.
By November, Zea was already back to work on her new TBS comedy, The Detour , with Jason Jones.
Photo: Getty Images
The Walking Dead star and her boyfriend, Brick Stowell, officially became parents in November 2015 to a daughter named Marley.
The 27-year-old actress hinted at her sleepless nights after becoming a mom by using baby bottle emojis in the captions of her photos.
Jessa Duggar Seewald
It was big news when the 23-year-old reality star married Ben Seewald in 2014, and when she announced she was pregnant, all eyes were on the newlyweds.
On Nov. 5, 2015 the reality couple added a son, Spurgeon Elliot, to their family.
Since his birth, fans have been watching Spurgeon grow up on Jill & Jessa: Counting On , and if the Duggar sisters have it their way, there will be more babies soon.
"I think we will probably be pregnant at the same time," Jill Duggar said in the show’s finale about the idea of baby number two for her and her sister.
From the moment Chanel Nicole entered the world, her photos have been all over Instagram.
On Nov. 28, 2015 Austin and husband Ice-T announced the arrival of their angel, and since then, Austin's been documenting Chanel's every move.
The newborn even has her own social media pages (@babychanelnicole), which were started the day after she was born!
Photo: Getty Images
The English actress and her Hunger Games husband, Sam Claflin, became parents in December 2015.
The couple has been very quiet about the birth of their first child and has yet to release any details about the sex of the baby or the name.
Photo: Getty Images
In January 2016, the So You Think You Can Dance host had her first child.
She welcomed a healthy baby boy with her husband, Patrick Kielty, but they have yet to reveal his name.
The Vampire Diaries star and her rocker husband, Joe King of The Fray, got a visit from the stork on Jan. 15.
The 28-year-old actress announced the arrival of their baby girl, Florence May, by posting a photo of her little feet on an embroidered blanket with her name and birth date on it.
Thompson Square is no longer a duo.
On Jan. 24, Thompson and her husband, Keifer Thompson, welcomed Rigney Cooper, making them a family of three.
"God blessed us this morning with a little 7 pound 13 oz miracle," the couple said in a statement to the press.
"It's hard to explain this kind of love.
On Jan. 27, the former America's Next Top Model host revealed that she was a mom.
The 42-year-old model and boyfriend Erik Asla welcomed their son, York Banks, via surrogate.
A few weeks later, on Valentine's Day, Banks shared her first portrait with her son and it was as flawless as you'd imagine.
In January, the "I Got the Boy" singer got a lot of good news.
That month, the country singer and husband Mike Caussin welcomed their daughter, Jolie Rae, and later that week, Kramer was nominated for Female Vocalist of the Year at the ACM Awards.
"What a whirlwind of great surprises and wonderful news," the singer-songwriter said in a statement.
"I'm overwhelmed with joy after welcoming my beautiful baby girl into the world AND finding out I've been nominated for an ACM Award!"
A week after welcoming their son into the world, Byrne's longtime boyfriend, Bobby Cannavale, announced that the couple was officially parents.
"I had a baby on Monday, yes," Cannavale revealed on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert .
The acting duo later revealed that Rocco was born on Feb. 1.
A photo posted by Emilie de Ravin (@emiliede_ravin) on Mar 20, 2016 at 9:01pm PDT
The Once Upon a Time actress has been a mom for almost two months after she and boyfriend Eric Bilitch welcomed their first child, a baby girl named Vera Audrey, in March.
The next day, de Ravin took to Twitter to announce her daughter's birth saying, "So in love with our little girl!"
Hathaway and her husband, producer Adam Shulman, became parents on March 24.
Their son, Jonathan Rosebanks, was born in Los Angeles, California, and according to an E!
Online source, "the baby is extremely healthy and is surrounded by friends and family in L.A." The insider added, "Anne and Adam are ecstatic to be parents."
A photo posted by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on Apr 19, 2016 at 4:02pm PDT
The model is the latest celebrity to join the new-mom club.
On April 14, Teigen and her husband, singer John Legend, welcomed Luna Simone Stephens.
Luna Simone Stephens, we are so in love with you!
Very sleepy," Teigen wrote on Instagram.