Sanyukta Iyer | Mumbai Mirror | May 6, 2016, 10.36 AM IST Locals at the Babasaheb Ambedkar Airport in Nagpur were taken by surprise when Aamir Khan walked out on Wednesday night accompanied by Marathi stage and film actors, Reema Lagoo, Anil Bhatkal, Sai Tamhankar and Anil Barwe.
They were there to take part in a contest on water conservation conducted by the state government.
Aamir is the brand ambassador of CM Devendra Fadnavis's project 'Jal Yukta Shivar.
'On Thursday, at 4 am, they took off to the Warud taluka of Vidarbha's Amravati district, one of the worst drought-hit regions in Maharashtra.
The reason Aamir handpicked the village of Wathoda was because the locals had begun to save water and his Paani Foundation which will train villagers from 120 villages in water harvesting, wanted to applaud their efforts.
The actors dug for four hours, followed by an interaction between Aamir, Satyajit Bhatkal and the villagers.
"The villagers wanted to know what other methods of water conservation could be made available to them and Aamir ji answered all of them," Reema said.
Realising the infrastructure was collapsing too, Aamir announced the building of a new road.
Sai believes this is the best way to make Maharashtra drought-free: "Not only is this a superhuman cause but also a campaign that is helping us redeem ourselves.
"When Aamir met Fadnavis in mid-February, three drought-hit talukas were selected for water conservation through public participation.
They were Warud in Vidarbha's Amravati district, Ambejogai in Beed of Marathwada, and Koregaon in Satara district.Aamir instituted a 'Satyameva Jayate Water Cup' and invited over 20 celebs, including Riteish Deshmukh, Atul Kulkarni, Sunny Leone, Kangana Ranaut, Rajkumar Hirani to join the initiative.
He also set up a contest for the best worker in water conservation and on April 15, he took off to Beed for his first water harvesting campaign.
"116 villages are next in line.
Groups of us are going to visit each of them in the coming months and work hard to help.
This is just the beginning; things are not going to change overnight.
Aamir ji and us have a long way to go," Reema signs off.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia