1/54
Trust little AbRam to steal the show each time he faces the camera, even when his father, Shah Rukh Khan is in the same frame.
The cutie was completely in his element during the Kolkata Knight Riders' match held at the Eden Gardens in the ninth season of the ongoing Indian Premier League.
Before the match began, SRK had tweeted about his visit to the stadium with his son and all eyes were glued on to the stands to catch a glimpse of the adorable father-son duo.
While not much was seen of them during the match, post the game, the two descended down on the grounds and played with each other.
While last time AbRam played with bottles of water, this time, it was water that interested him.
The duo sprinkled water on each other and seemed to have quite a good time doing so.While AbRam is surely the show-stealer in this video, read on to know other instances when the little one claimed status as a superstar...
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/Watch-SRK-AbRams-water-games/eventshow/52118778.cmsTrust little AbRam to steal the show each time he faces the camera, even when his father, Shah Rukh Khan is in the same frame.
The cutie was completely in his element during the Kolkata Knight Riders' match held at the Eden Gardens in the ninth season of the ongoing Indian Premier League.
Before the match began, SRK had tweeted about his visit to the stadium with his son and all eyes were glued on to the stands to catch a glimpse of the adorable father-son duo.
While not much was seen of them during the match, post the game, the two descended down on the grounds and played with each other.
While last time AbRam played with bottles of water, this time, it was water that interested him.
The duo sprinkled water on each other and seemed to have quite a good time doing so.While AbRam is surely the show-stealer in this video, read on to know other instances when the little one claimed status as a superstar...
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/Shah-Rukh-Khan-and-AbRam-ready-to-rock-Kolkata-tonight/eventshow/52108357.cmsShah Rukh Khan's IPL cricket team, Kolkota Knight Riders, will be playing in Kolkata tonight (May 4).
And guess who is getting ready to watch the match?
It is none other than King Khan's youngest son, AbRam.
Baby AbRam was a regular at the KKR games with his dad last year too.
The latest KKR ad shows King Khan with the catchy caption 'Ami KKR,' with the shots of the beautiful city and its people.
And to add to that, SRK tweeted that he and little AbRam are all ready for their first match in Kolkata.
He tweeted, "Practising our dance moves lil AbRam and me as we prep for our first match in Kolkata.
Ami Kolkata here we come…see you all at the Garden."
We are sure that apart from some amazing cricket, Kolkata will definitely get some great company in King Khan and AbRam!Move on to the next slide to read about why AbRam is already a star in his own rights...
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/AbRam-amused-by-so-many-papas-in-Fan/eventshow/51872714.cms'Fan' is fetching good reviews from all quarters but it seems like it isn't only the audience that is in love with the actor's double whammy.
SRK's littlest, AbRam, too was all claps for the film.
However, his sense of amusement came from the fact that there was so much of his 'papa' on-screen.
On a live chat app, the actor said that he loved it when AbRam kept shouting, "two papas" and "so many papas" throughout the movie.
However, Shah Rukh also confessed that the kid was very disturbed towards the end of the film thanks to the intense climax scene.
Aww...now that's some papa worship, right there!AbRam is total cutie!
Check out other pictures that prove that Junior is a star already!
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/PIC-AbRam-kissed-by-two-girls/eventshow/51775398.cmsShah Rukh Khan’s youngest child, AbRam, will be turning 3 in May 2016.
But the little one has already become a celebrity of sorts.
His adorable looks and charm have been melting hearts wherever he goes.
After several pictures and videos of the little one that that have left us in awe of him, we now have yet another proof that the kid is simply irresistible.
In the picture above, AbRam is seen being kissed by two girls.
And going by their expressions, there is no doubt that they too are smitten by the youngest Khan.Move on to check out some more aww-worthy moments of this adorable Khan...
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/Aww-AbRam-bonding-with-mommy-Gauri-Khan/eventshow/51741883.cmsIt has long been established that Shah Rukh Khan’s youngest son, AbRam Khan, is one of the cutest star kid on the block.
The adorable little one has given us many occasions to go all ‘aww’ over him and he’s at it yet again.
We earlier informed you how the Khan family, sans SRK, was on a vacation at an undisclosed location.
Gauri and AbRam were now spotted at the Mumbai airport on their return.
Probably tired from his long flight, AbRam is see resting his head on his mom’s shoulder looking as adorable as ever.
What say?Move on to check out some more aww-worthy moments of AbRam…- Kiran Kaur
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/Shah-Rukh-Khans-daughter-shares-an-adorable-pic-of-AbRam/eventshow/51670232.cmsIt seems Shah Rukh Khan and his elder kids are just smitten by the super cute, youngest member of the Khan family, AbRam.
While Shah Rukh Khan has proved time and again that his kids are his world by posting adorable pics of them, his kids, Aryan and Suhana have followed suit.
Suhana took to her Instagram account share a pic of adorable younger sibling AbRam.
Dressed in a white tee, the kid looks super cute, while Gauri Khan is visible in the background, talking on the phone.While AbRam is busy sending us to cute-zone, check out other cute pics of AbRam...
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/WATCH-AbRam-trying-to-call-Aryan-Bhaiya-is-cuteness-overload/eventshow/51579702.cmsIt has long been established that Shah Rukh Khan’s youngest son, AbRam Khan, is one of the cutest kids on the block.
One look at the munchkin’s pictures and you’d be compelled to agree with us.
While we were already going gaga over his adorable antics, his latest video just took cuteness to a whole new level.
The 3-year-old was recently captured on cam while he was trying to call Aaryan, ‘Bhaiya.’ But he probably realized that it did not come out the way it should have as he went on to say ‘Oops’ right after.
Also seen in the video is Gauri Khan trying to cheer AbRam on.Move on to check out some more super cute moments of AbRam…- Kiran Kaur
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/Babys-day-out-AbRam-accompanies-mom-Gauri-Khan/eventshow/51405879.cmsAbRam Khan is a rockstar for sure.
The little one is usually out-and-about town with his superstar parents and is a shutterbugs' delight!
He is clicked everytime he makes a public appearance and the pictures take social media by a storm.
The tiny tot was seen accompanying mom, Gauri Khan, to a film screening recently.
AbRam sat with his nanny in the rear seat of the car while mommy sat in the front seat.
As usual, AbRam seemed upbeat about his outing and could be seen interacting with his mother.This sure seems good for mother-son bonding especially after Gauri confessed that SRK keeps AbRam away from her.
Click on the next slide to know more...
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/Shah-Rukh-Khan-keeps-Gauri-away-from-AbRam/eventshow/51087899.cmsNow, you must be wondering why on earth would any sensible man keep his wife away from a child, especially if the person is Shah Rukh Khan?
But wait, the reason behind SRK doing this is more 'aww' inspiring than nasty.
We all know by now how AbRam is an apple of everyone's eye.
So one can imagine that a super busy father like SRK must be missing his adorable son.
Hence, SRK takes him along to every possible film shoot and spends quality time with him between takes and rehearsals.
Now the flip side of this father-son attachment is that mom Gauri is left alone at home and needless to say, she is not at all happy about it.
No wonder Gauri rues that she gets to spend very little time with AbRam who, she says, is the most pampered kid of the couple and is already globetrotter, all thanks to SRK.
Gauri feels that neither Aryan nor Suhana ever got the kind of pampering AbRam enjoys.
Well, the only thing we feel bad about is that Gauri gets to spend very little time with the adorable munchkin and we can completely understand her dilemma.
How about letting your wife spend some time with your son, SRK?With everyone in the world wanting him to be by their side, AbRam is already a superstar in his own right.
Like father, like son, we say!
And if you don't believe us, click on the next slide to see how SRK's youngest son is a star already…- Hiten J Trivedi
/abram-khan-srks-son-is-a-star-already/PIC-SRK-and-AbRam-are-quad-biking-on-Goa-beach/eventshow/51067598.cmsDespite being just two and a half years old, Shah Rukh Khan’s youngest son, AbRam, has been making headlines regularly due to his unmatchable cuteness.
This is evident from the comments he receives on social media, when everyone goes gaga over how cute he is.
The kid is back once again to floor you but this time, papa SRK is also with him.
The father-son duo is seen riding a quad bike on a beautiful beach in Goa.
AbRam seems very comfortable as he is sitting calmly with a black cap on.
The picture was shared by SRK’s fan club on Instagram.The little Khan was also recently spotted with SRK in Gujarat, where they were mobbed by fans.
Click on the following slide to know the whole story…