Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner are making it work for the kids.
The exes and their three children -- 10-year-old Violet, 7-year-old Seraphina, and 4-year-old Samuel -- have been spending time together in Europe, where Affleck has been renting a place in London while filming Justice League .
The entire family, along with a nanny, was also spotted in Paris, France, on Thursday, where there was no drama between Garner and Affleck.
"They are excited to show the kids London," a source close to the pair tells ET.
"This is a great opportunity.
They always support each other while the other films.
He was there during filming [in Atlanta] for Miracles From Heaven ."
And despite a report by the Daily Mail sourcing an eyewitness who said Garner, 44, and Affleck, 43, were kissing in a hotel bar in Paris, our source says the two are not rekindling their romance.
"They are not together, but are friends and co-parents," the source adds.
The still-close exes certainly appear to be making the most out of their time in Europe.
On Thursday, the family took a stroll in the streets of Paris and visited the famous gelato shop, Amorino.
Despite their celebrity status, Garner and Affleck waited in line with other customers, and were immediately recognized by some fans and even chatted with them.
"They were chill and it didn’t seem there was any tension between him and her," an eyewitness tells ET about the family also enjoying a leisurely hour-long lunch together at Le Carette restaurant.
"They didn’t show any PDA.
They were just out to a family lunch."
On Friday, Garner and the kids had a busy day sightseeing without Affleck, visiting the Notre Dame Cathedral, Roue de Paris, Place de la Concorde, Place de L'Opera, and Montmartre.
The Alias star and her daughters were also spotted taking selfies, and playing with toy sailboats at the Jardins du Luxembourg.
Garner dressed casually for the day full of exploring, sporting a gray sweater, black trousers, and flats.
Photo: Best Images/FAMEFLYNET
In March, Affleck called Garner a "good friend" during an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
"We're good friends and we're doing our best," Affleck told DeGeneres.
"Our kids are fabulous and we're working our best for them."
Playing Jennifer Garner and Ben Affleck Spotted Together in Paris, Spark Reconciliation Rumors