By Emily Jennings, Sky Producer
Johnny Depp has paid tribute to Alan Rickman and his performance in his last film before his death in January.
Speaking at the London premiere of Alice Through The Looking Glass, produced by Tim Burton, Depp said: "He was a supremely unique talent.
That voice, that persona.
There's hardly anyone unique anymore.
He was unique."
The 52-year-old, who returns to the role of the Mad Hatter after the success of Alice in Wonderland, prompted screams from the crowd as he walked on to the red carpet at London's Odeon Leicester Square.
Tim Burton described the cast as his 'weird, dysfunctional family'
"It was a lot of fun to come back to the Mad Hatter," he said.
"It was a gas to get back together with the cast and the addition of Sacha (Baron Cohen) upped the stakes quite a lot.
"This particular film has a bit more of the Hatter's layers and things going on.
Rickman's character Absolem the blue caterpillar
"The first film was something very special in terms of Tim (Burton) and I working together again.
"Bringing in James (Bobin) was brilliant because he has such a profound respect for the language that Tim created and stretched it into his own vision."
Director James Bobin described Rickman as a "fantastic actor", commending him for his role as Absolem the caterpillar in the film, which sees Australian actress Mia Wasikowski reprise the lead role, as Alice returns to the nonsensical world of Wonderland.
The actor died at the age of 69 in January
Describing how she was drawn to the strength of Alice's character, Ms Wasikowski said: "Despite expectations of her being quite low she manages to hold on to this sense that she's worth more than what people expect of her.
"The message in the film is really nice, that the best way to deal with time is to accept what happened in the past and not try and change it and move on freely into the future."
Burton described having the cast from the original film back together again as "Alice in Wonderland and a weird dysfunctional family," adding his love of unusual people influenced his casting.
"I like working with weird people, they're very lucky that way," he said.
In return, Burton described Depp as his "brother," adding he could never grow tired of working with the actor.
Alice Through The Looking Glass is released in UK cinemas on 27 May.