Abdul Rahim Appabhai Almelkar, popularly known as A.
A. Almelkar left behind an indelible mark in the word of art.
Hailing from the sleepy village of Almelkar in the erstwhile undivided district of Bijapur, the legendary painter’s exhibition is being held in the National Gallery of Modern Art, Mumbai, and will remain open for art lovers till June 30.
The exhibition titled, Inspiration and Impact is being presented by renowned artist Suhas Bahulkar of Mumbai.
Born on October 10, 1920 in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, his family shifted later to Almel when the painter was a little boy.
Carrying the passion of art from his childhood itself, Almelkar pursued art education in Nutan Kala Mandir, Bombay in 1940.
In his later years, he obtained a Diploma in Drawing and Painting from Sir.
J.J School of Arts, Mumbai, in 1948.
He breathed his last in Pune on December 12, 1982 after a massive heart attack.
Known for his distinct ‘Almelkar style’ of painting which was profusely inspired by Indian miniatures, Almelkar was deeply rooted in traditional Indian values and ethos which are distinctly palpable in his work.
Though he was under tremendous psychological pressure from his contemporaries to adopt a new and modern artistic style, his elemental obsession for traditional values gave a valiant resistance to all challenges.
“Often he was berated by several artists saying that Almelkar’s style is banal, unimpressive.
However, no amount criticism deterred Almelkar ”, says Dr. Rehaman Patel, artist and President, Indian Royal Academy of Art and Culture, Kalaburagi, and an ardent admirer of Almelkar.
“The art movement was divided in streams, one led by radical reformists like F.N.
Souza, M.F.
Husain, S.H.
Raza and Bakre from the Progressive group and the other one explored by Almelkar, the traditionalist,” says Dr. Patel.
Almelkar meticulously carved his work on the canvas using motley colours and decorative elements in a variety of compositions.
His unique style often made him use bare fingers instead of the brush to get the art of his choice.
“Almelkar did not confine himself only to colours, but he experimented even with objects such as jute and others to get a different texture to his work.
This later become his hallmark,” recalls Dr. Patel.
He adds that the paintings of Almelkar got a final shape after defining the contours with lyrical and tender black lines.
Almelkar was also was lured into the primitive world of the tribal which is richly incorporated in his works.
The diverse and vibrant village life along with nature proved to be an added inspiration for Almelkar to paint pictures.
His work features only the lighter, blissful and rejoicing aspect of tribal life, and as admirers say, Almelkar was not interested in the dismal side of their lives.
Almelkar won numerous awards for his excellent work, including the Governor’s award at Bombay Art Society exhibition in 1948 and Gold Medal of Bombay Art Society in 1954.
In 1960, he received the National Award from Lalit Kala Academy, New Delhi.
In 1955, some eminent political leaders from Malaysia and Indonesia, during their visit to India, bought Almelkar’s paintings.
Subsequently, in 1960, the Malayan Federation Art Council invited Almelkar to hold an exhibition in their country, offering the artist his first chance to visit abroad.
He spent about four months travelling extensively.
He returned to India with thousands of sketches which inspired him to paint on South East Asian themes which were sold quickly in exhibitions back home.
His admirers however, rue that the legendry artist has been neglected by the government of Karnataka.
“It is unfortunate that though Almelkar belongs to Karnataka, the Ministry of Kannada and Culture and Karnataka Lalithakala Academy have grossly neglected to remember this native artist of world fame.
The academy has not published a single book in Kannada nor made any documentation on him, ” says Dr. Patel.