E!
is getting into bed with Cosmopolitan magazine.
The NBCUniversal Cable-owned channel has ordered four new unscripted series, including one centered on the popular publication, it was announced Wednesday.
Cosmo Life (working title) follows the work-hard, play-hard lifestyles of a group of young tastemakers in the know about what's hot in music, fashion, style, beauty, sex and celebrities, often opening up their own lives to millions of readers around the globe.
The up-and-comers at the best-selling women’s magazine must juggle the temptations of New York’s hottest celebrity parties and VIP nightlife with the demands of their jobs and their formidable editor-in-chief, Joanna Coles.
The project is produced by Bunim/Murray Productions ( Keeping Up With the Kardashians ), and executive producers include Gil Goldschein, Jeff Jenkins and Rob Bagshaw, as well as Coles and Holly Whidden from Cosmo.
The network also is expanding one of its current franchises, WAGS , with WAGS: Miami, centered on the lavish lifestyles and intense drama of eight superstar athletes' significant others based in the Florida city.
The wives and girlfriends are bound together by a strict hierarchy of unspoken rules with no boundaries and no filters.
The women must juggle their demanding relationships with trying to bring their own dreams to fruition.
Amber Mazzola and Lori Gordon will executive produce the project from Machete Productions.
Famously Married (working title) also will explore high-pressure romantic relationships.
The project centers on a group of so-called Hollywood trophy wives who are either married to, or planning to marry, wealthy and successful older men.
These women must contend with their partners' ex-wives and children, as well as trying to make it into elite Los Angeles society.
From Studio Lambert and All3Media America, the series' executive producers include Stephen Lambert, Greg Lipstone, Greg Goldman, and Sara Quick.
E!
also will put the spotlight on a very different part of Los Angeles, the scene at West Hollywood's popular gay bar The Abbey, on The Abbey Diaries (working title).
The series centers on the employees of the hot spot as they juggle VIP guests and celebrities with their own relationship drama and personal ambitions for a life in the limelight.
David Goldberg, Caroline Baumgard, Ray Giuliani and The Abbey's David Cooley will exec produce the Banijay Studios North America project.
These new scripted series join a wide-ranging portfolio of reality hits at the network, which also is home to Keeping Up With the Kardashians and its many spinoffs, Botched and its spinoff, Total Divas , and a forthcoming spinoff, #RichKids of Beverly Hills and Hollywood Medium With Tyler Henry .
E!
also is getting ready to launch two new unscripted shows this summer, Famously Single and EJ and the City.
The unscripted series centered on Cosmo comes several months after a scripted project about the magazine was put into development at NBC.
However, that project was not picked up to pilot.
May 04, 2016
9:30am PT by
Kate Stanhope
The NBCUniversal Cable network also greenlighted an unscripted series centered on the popular Los Angeles bar The Abbey.