The content and the treatment of characters in Fisherwoman & Tuk Tuk are touching making it an appropriate winner of the 63rd National Award for Best Animation.
The engaging and aesthetically appealing film is written and directed by Suresh Eriyat, a pioneer in the Indian animation industry whose portfolio boasts of 300 ad films and over 100 national and international awards.
The 15-minute film, is a simple, immortal love story between a middle-aged fisherwoman (referred to as Bai) and her autorickshaw.
The uninhibited bonding of the animate with the inanimate conveys loneliness, love, fantasies and aspirations in the midst of a hard life.
This makes the crisp film relatable.
“The choice of the fisherwoman as the main protagonist –– not angelic, beautiful or sweet but on the contrary aggressive, brash and surly –– was deliberate.
It breaks the stereotyped image of a hero/heroine while driving home the point of not taking people on their face value.
The harsh exterior covers softer elements of their personality,” explains Suresh.
He gives Bai genuine contours through spacing between her teeth and stretch marks on the tummy.
This holds true for the other characters like the vendors and buyers in the market.
The depiction of the traffic and market make the audience feel at home.
Suresh cleverly weaves pointers in the short film.
We see a black sheep walking nonchalantly in a direction opposite to that followed by the flock.
“This signifies that Bai is a rebel,” says Suresh.
He feels everyday ordinary people, like a cab driver, panwallah, vegetable vendor, salesman or a policeman, whom we may see everyday but ignore, provide a mélange of themes, characters and tales that can be explored for story telling through animation.
In 2009, he chanced upon a group of carefree and loud fisherwoman crossing the road resulting in Fisherwoman & Tuk Tuk .
The alumnus of National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, observes that one reason for very few animation films being made in India is the lack of interesting and contextual content.
“The percentage of storytellers in animation is limited to two per cent.
We tend to ride on the popularity of known personalities like Hanuman, Ganesha, Arjun and Krishna, etc while choosing subjects instead of creating something original.” He agrees that the West has a long legacy in this genre and the international animation hits like the Panda and the Ice Age series are a proof of this.
But Suresh prefers to look at Japan to emulate drawing attention to the popularity of anime and mango among their youth.
To balance the sombre storyline, Suresh adopts a contradictory approach for the characters and background.
He imbibes the animation with exaggerated attitude and vibrant colours.
The fisherwoman has a combination of masculine and feminine attributes.
Tough and hard with customers and neighbouring vendors, Bai’s kindness is visible when she deals with pet cats and, of course, her first and only love, the tuk tuk.
“Taking a cue from Bollywood movies and the hand painted film posters of past, I made the characters look larger-than-life, loud and overblown taking the audience on a fantasy trip.
But I place them within the framework of a down to earth storyline.
The real is embedded in the unreal,” he explains.
Amazingly, unlike other animations, this short film has no voice over.
The facial gestures, body movements and the background convey the sentiments without the dialogues.
Suresh hopes his film will inspire other filmmakers to take up animation for story telling breaking the image of it being simply technical wizardry.
This will mould young audience to appreciate the genre and change the tastes of the older generation which tends to slot it genre as cartoon films.
“I want the audience and the content to grow so that the genre comes on its own and is not confused with cartoon films,” he avers.