1/8
The 'Pavitra Rishta' couple, Sushant Singh Rajput and Ankita Lokhande recently ended their 6-year-long courtship.
While Sushant seems to have moved on from his heartbreak and is busy shooting for his next flick 'Raabta' with Kriti Sanon, Ankita, on the other hand, seems to still be holding on to their love.
According to a report on BollywoodLife.com, Ankita has been sending feelers to SSR through their common friends.
Will the much-loved couple reconcile or has their relationship ended for good?
Only time will tell.Click to the next slide to know why they broke up...
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/Is-this-why-Sushant-Singh-Rajput-and-Ankita-Lokhande-reportedly-broke-up/eventshow/52108456.cmsSeveral B-Town couples drew the curtains of their relationship this year, and Sushant Singh Rajput-Ankita Lokhande happen to be one of them.
The duo reportedly ended their 6-year-long courtship, which began on the sets of their debut TV show, ‘Pavitra Rishta.’ Though several reports have been doing the rounds speculating the cause of the split, a source close to the couple has a completely different story to tell, reports BollywoodLife.com.
The source was quoted in the report as saying, “Ankita and Sushant were both wanting different things.
Ankita wanted to start a family while Sushant was not ready.
In fact, Ankita was very upset because she felt that she missed out on an important film with a major superstar because of Sushant’s tiff with one of Bollywood’s top production house with whom the actor had debuted.”While we wonder if there any chances of reconciliation between the two, click on the next slide to read more about SSR and Ankita's relationship...
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/Ankita-Lokhande-confirms-her-break-up-with-Sushant-Singh-Rajput/eventshow/51994410.cmsThe news of Ankita Lokhande and Sushant Singh Rajput breaking up brought along not just shock, but also a major disappointment to us all.
But what made the whole scene even messier were the contradicting statements issued by the duo.
While Sushant reportedly stated that it is a difficult time for him and he doesn’t want to talk about it, Ankita went ahead to give an interview rubbishing split rumours.
The TV actress, whose clinginess and insecurity were said to be the reasons behind the break-up, was even accused of being in denial about the mishap.
But looks like she has finally come to terms with reality, or so suggest her recent tweets.
Talking about self-love, the actress tweeted, “So many years of education yet nobody ever taught me how to love myself and why it's so important.” She then posted the above picture with a tweet that hinted a bit at a dark phase of her life saying, “Black and white adding colours in my life .... Something really special ... Never realised friends r so imp .”While their alleged break-up seems almost final right now, there are certain sections who believe that the whole thing is merely a publicity gimmick.
Move on to read all about it…- Kiran Kaur
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/Sushant-Singh-Rajput-Ankita-Lokhandes-break-up-a-publicity-gimmick/eventshow/51646228.cmsSushant Singh Rajput and Ankita Lokhande’s love life seems to be gripped with confusion with a new report coming our way ever passing day.
First the break-up rumours themselves, then Sushant allegedly confirming the news and then Ankita rubbishing the rumours.
And now in a new development, a close friend of the couple has suggested that it could all be a publicity gimmick.
In a report on Mid-Day.com, a source is quoted saying that Sushant is indecisive about the relationship since he wants people to talk about his work more than his love life.
And the actor hasn’t really communicated to Ankita as to what he wants – a single status or a committed one.
The source has further said that it “could also be a PR exercise” to create buzz around Sushant’s upcoming film, ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story.’ Publicity or not, Sushant is yet to clarify his stand, stated the source in the same report.Move on to find out what Ankita has to say about the whole issue…
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/Ankita-Lokhande-shocked-at-break-up-rumours-with-Sushant-Singh-Rajput/eventshow/51610190.cmsIn an altogether new, and unexpected, spin of events, Ankita Lokhande has come out to refute rumours of her alleged break-up with Sushant Singh Rajput.
The actress in an interview with Mumbai Mirror has expressed her shock and resentment saying that the speculations are “unnecessary and uncalled for.” The actress confirmed in the interview that she and Sushant are very much together and that she loves Sushant “unconditionally.” The actress went on to say that she is most hurt with the rumours of her insecurity towards the relationship and though, she admits being a tad bit possessive, she outright ridicules rumours about her having an issue with Sushant’s closeness to Parineeti Chopra or having a problem with him kissing his co-stars on-screen.
The actress said to Mirror, ““Such rumours hurt since I have always admired and respected Sushant for his loyalty and commitment.
He has never played games with me.
He has always been a one-woman man and I love my man.” Ankita further stated how shocked her beau, Sushant was when he heard about their break-up rumours yesterday.
The actor had been away to Bucharest and was unaware of the sad rumours until she (Ankita) informed him.
Lokhande has confirmed that her impending wedding is very much on and that she has left it to Sushant to come back and clarify the break-up rumours.
Even before Ankita came out in the open to speak about the issue, she had posted a very sweet message for Rajput on social media that confirmed they were together.
Move on to read Ankita’s message…
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/Heres-what-Ankita-told-Sushant-Singh-Rajput-amid-breakup-rumours/eventshow/51559387.cmsOf late, several reports have been doing the rounds that Sushant Singh Rajput and his longtime girlfriend, Ankita Lokhande have apparently called it quits on their 6-year-long relationship.
This news came as a shock, especially since SSR, at a recent event, had stated that the duo was planning on tying the knot really soon.
While everyone continued musing about their breakup, Ankita took to Twitter to put rumours to rest.
She tweeted, "Don't feel alone I m always there in ur heart ,in ur life ❤️@itsSSR".
Aww...now isn't that adorable?
Looks like the 'Kai Po Che' star and his girlfriend and are going rock solid.Now that Ankita has put breakup rumors to rest, we can't wait to see the two tying knot.
Meanwhile, click on the next slide to read about celebs who we think should tie the knot soon...
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/eventshow/49162158.cms Sushant Singh Rajput to have an elaborate wedding with Ankita Lokhande According to an interview in Mumbai Mirror, Sushant Singh Rajput's s huddh desi romance with Ankita Lokhande is set to turn into a shuddh desi marriage.
Unlike other actors, Sushant has never shied away from personal questions.
He's been open about the fact that he has been dating Ankita for the last six-seven years, living in with her.
“I was told that if I get married, I will lose my female fan following.
If that happens, I will quit acting," he asserts.
“Ankita wants an elaborate wedding and it will happen at the end of next year when I am done with my current commitments.
By then I'll have a year to condition myself so that I can enjoy the wedding.
I have no option," he chuckles.
Let's have a look at celebs who should tie the knot...
/bollywood-celebs-who-should-tie-the-knot/eventshow/48365113.cms Ranveer Singh-Deepika Padukone : While the couple have never confessed to being in a relationship, their reported display of affection seems to be a dead giveaway of what’s brewing between the two.
After her alleged break-up with Ranbir Kapoor, Deepika found a friend in Ranveer Singh.
The couple met and reportedly fell in love during the making of the Sanjay Leela Bhansali film, Goliyon Ki Raasleela: Ram-Leela.
Recently, pictures of Ranveer spending time with Deepika's father, Prakash Padukone were out.
This fuelled rumours that the duo was getting serious about the relationship and an engagement might be on the cards.
However, there has been no confirmation yet.