There is more to art than money is the thought that underlines theEgg Art Studio.
Egg Art Studio is the latest addition to the robust list of art galleries in Delhi but then Amrita Varma and Tavleen Akoi-Gill don’t really intend to run it like a typical gallery.
It has been a few days since the gallery opened at Narain Manzil on Barakhamba Road with “Genesis”, a group show exhibiting works in a range of mediums by Indian and foreign artists.
While that’s inside the gallery space, on my visit to the gallery a few days later, I find it hosting “Carbon-12” — an outcome of a two-week long residency in Jaipur as well.
The exhibition of 12 international artists’ musings on climate change was inaugurated by the Union Environment minister Prakash Javadekar.
A few days before that a kids workshop had also taken place in the gallery.
Kids in the age group of 4-12 worked in collaboration with Tibetan artist Tashi Norbu.
They participated in the exercise and painted on the side wall.
Each work is duly accompanied by its creator’s name just like any other professional work.
“It is not going to be just a space for selling and buying.
I wanted to be an artist but I couldn’t because of the system that exists.
This space is born out of that and with a wish to offer a platform to nurture young artists,” says Amrita, who co-founded the gallery with Tavleen.
Amrita has taken a long time to have something of her own.
Associated with different galleries, working as independent art advisor, writer and curator in her over a decade-long career, Amrita has taken a long time to have something of her own.
She found her ideas resonate with her childhood friend Tavleen, great grand niece of Amrita Sher-Gil.
And together they started to travel around the country and the world discovering talent like Fanil Pandya, Vipul Prajapati and Manoj Dwivedi.
An interesting discovery is Bijay Biswal, a travelling ticket examiner who also does beautiful landscapes.
“Vijay doesn’t feature in the show but we are working with him.
Fanil Pandya is a young photographer who focuses on the survival of Omo Valley tribes’ way of life.
He is sold out completely.
We have priced Iranian artist Hojat Amani’s works from his angel series at $1200?
Is it too much?
Look at the work and you will realise it is not.
We also specialise in evaluation and that also sets us apart.
Every work is curated and evaluated carefully.
But having said money doesn’t build an artist.
The minute this money and star status goes to an artist head, his/her quality of art goes down but innovation and integrity is the only way that will take you up,” says Amrita.
Its location inside a building that houses — banks, law firms and airlines office — right next to the Barakhamba Road Metro station also aligns with the space’s philosophy of reaching out.
“Art is a trace that’s going to be left behind when we are gone.
It will be the basis on which we will be judged by history and our successive generations then shouldn’t we be more inclusive and make people aware of it.
We aren’t a cold gallery space which is why we have so many casual walk-ins.
I like to take them through the show,” remarks Amrita.
The show is divided into two sections – Microcosm and Macrocosm.
While Microcosm strives to build the case for Maldives as an emerging art destination, Macrocosm is an eclectic mix of middle-rung and young artists.
Sarudhaaru Don Manik’s lithoprint of actor Suraiya occupies a prideful place amongst the exhibits.
“He was the first Maldivian to scuba dive and also the first contemporary artist of the country.
From a vintage Manik to contemporary Ismail Asif, who has done a photograph showing a bloodied head of a fish being carried by a human being, we have a huge range,” says Tavleen.
Amrita adds their relationship with Maldives isn’t going to end here.
“We are going to do some residencies there.
It is going to be a long-term association,” she adds.
The gallery has planned solos with Fanil Pandya, Tashi Norbu and Rajeev Kumar and is working towards creating sister galleries in different parts of the country.
(“Genesis- The Veil” is on at the atrium Narain Manzil, 23 Barakhamba Road, till June 9)