EXCLUSIVE!
JWoww Gives Birth!
Jersey Shore Star and Roger Mathews Welcome a Baby Boy
Presented By &
Congratulations—and maybe a few fist pumps—are in order for Jenni "JWoww" Farley .
E!
News has exclusively confirmed that former Jersey Shore star and husband Roger Mathews have welcomed a baby boy into their family.
The reality star's rep tells E!
News Farley gave birth to "a healthy baby boy today at 6:03 p.m.
EST.," and adds, that "both mom and the baby are doing great."
For those hoping to meet the little guy, JWoww recently teased fans that the first photo of her son will soon appear on her new mobile app .
The newest family member comes after the couple shocked wedding guests with a big announcement at their reception.
In front of co-stars, family and friends, the pair announced they were expecting baby No.
2 just hours after exchanging vows.
"This was one of the hardest secrets to keep but it was one of the most memorable parts of our wedding!"
the bride told E!
News exclusively.
"The reaction from everyone was priceless.
Roger and I only told our publicist and our nanny that we were expecting, so to watch everyone's face when Roger announced it was priceless."
Ever since that unforgettable evening, the couple has documented the moment they found out the sex of their child as well as their " baby sprinkle " with BFF Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi .
As for their first child Meilani, she's ready to be the ultimate big sister for her newest sibling.
"Roger and I have said from the beginning that, just like it was with Meilani, it does not matter which gender our baby is, as long as he or she is healthy," JWoww wrote on her personal website .
"Still, we are so excited to be expecting a baby BOY!"
She continued, "It's amazing knowing that we are having one of each, just like Nicole.
I can't wait for us to meet him and I know Meilani's going to be an awesome, protective big sister.
I'm so happy they're going to grow up close in age and now the countdown really begins!"
Congratulations again to the happy couple!