Watch: Vikram Bhatt's 'Raaz Reboot' motion poster
Alia Bhatt might release an album in future
Prachi Desai: I am bored of playing simpleton
Cannes Film Festival 2016: Young Indian director Varun Chopra debuts with short film
Prachi Desai: Reality based films are not dry films
Alia Bhatt was unrecognisable on the sets of Udta Punjab
Emraan Hashmi: Controversy surrounding 'Azhar' was expected
Celebs @ Song launch party Lonely Planet Travel Awards 2016 20 Manjhe 20: Trailer Launch Azhar: Press Meet Celebs at airport Sundowner party Pelé: Launch Kids Fest 2016
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Filmmaker Vikas Bahl, who has co-produced 'Udta Punjab', says the team will insist the Censor Board to give the movie an 'A' certificate.
PTI | May 11, 2016, 06.18 PM IST
Filmmaker Vikas Bahl, who has co-produced 'Udta Punjab', says the team will insist the Censor Board to give the movie an 'A' certificate.
'Udta Punjab', directed by Abhishek Chaubey, is being made after four years of research and is based on the drug-related problems prevalent in Punjab.
"I would insist the board to give us an adult certificate.
This film has been made for an age group of a certain number and above that," Bahl told reporters.
Directors let down Amit Trivedi's music: Vikas Bahl Mumbai, May 11 () Amit Trivedi's last three soundtracks impressed critics but the movies failed at the box office and filmmaker Vikas Bahl feels the directors did not push the music forward.
Trivedi composed for "Fitoor", Bahl's "Shaandaar", and Anurag Kashyap's "Bombay Velvet".
"However, I think CBFC is going through a process to come to a point where people understand what they're trying to do.
There seem to be fluctuations in some of the decisions but I think that's a process," he added.
Bahl said people will eventually come to realise that some of the decisions of the board are justified and feels 'Udta Punjab' will be viewed in the right context.
"I personally think, they are coming to a point where people after some time will feel that some decisions are justified and they're having good results with the audience," he said.
"This film is adult.
We should get an adult certificate.
I think everything, if seen in the right context, will get the right judgement," Bahl added.
The film stars Shahid Kapoor as a high-on-drugs rockstar Tommy Singh, Alia Bhatt as a Bihari migrant.
Kareena Kapoor Khan plays a doctor determined to fight the illegal transportation of drugs, while Diljit Dosanjh portrays a police officer.
The 'Queen' director said cuts in a film do hamper the creative process but feels the Board makes sure that the message does not get diluted.
"It does happen at times that there is something you've conceived and in case there is a cut it doesn't convey the right message.
But I think most of the times when you see it in the overall context, and the CBFC does that, they try to ensure that the message is not diluted."
'Udta Punjab' is scheduled to release on June 17.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia