Bluebirds, one of the biggest rock bands of the South in the 70s, continue to enthral their audiences.
Updated: May 12, 2016 20:30 IST
Raveena Joseph
Rajan and Rajasekaran PHOTO: V. GANESAN
Age, they say, is just a number.
At 67, the lead vocalist of rock band Bluebirds proves them right.
Give him a guitar, and Jesudasan Rajasekaran gets lost in his music.
He shrugs his shoulders as he strums a folk number and cranes his neck as he belts out a classic rock tune.
He jumps off stage and gets back on and the audience are exhausted just watching him perform.
“For me, it’s like a trance.
In the 70s, when I got off the stage, people would come closer and sniff, to see if I had been drinking,” laughs Rajasekaran.
But his high, he adds, happens when the music takes over.
“I’ve been performing for over 40 years now.
So I’m not just singing the song; I’m living it.
Each number brings back so many memories of the places where I’ve sung and the people I’ve met through the music,” says Rajasekaran.
The band was originally formed in 1969 in Madurai.
At that time, it was a typical Anglo-Indian dance band.
Enter Rajasekaran in 1975 to introduce the band to the classic rock tunes of Deep Purple, Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin and others.
“Back then, this was the biggest rock band in the Southern states,” says Rajan Muthukrishnan, the bass guitarist, who joined the band in the 80s, along with lead guitarist Jude Reeves.
The band was part of the thriving rock scene of that time, when they performed at clubs and pubs in Madras, Bangalore, Madurai and Trivandrum.
But before the 90s, because of jobs and marriages, they split up.
It was in December 2010, when Rajan was organising a party and wanted some live music, that he wondered, why not get the boys together?
“That year, we performed a show called ‘Get Back’ to relaunch the band,” says Rajan.
Rajasekaran interrupts, “No, no.
It wasn’t that year.
It was 2011.” “Are you sure?” asks Rajan, pensively.
“I might be old, but I still remember,” grins Rajasekaran.
“Okay, all right.
So in 2011, we started playing a few gigs again,” says Rajan.
Rajasekaran interrupts, “That was in 2012!”
Why are they so confused about dates?
Rajasekaran laughs, “It is difficult to keep track of these things when you have so much else going on.” While he is a retired educational administrator based in Madurai, Rajan is the founder of training programme Zeal in Chennai and Jude is a teacher living in Coimbatore.
“Music is our passion but it doesn’t earn us our bread and butter,” smiles Rajan.
After a bit of a tussle, they agree that it was 2013, which was a turning point for the band.
The current line-up — including Anthony Karuna on keys, Maarten Visser on sax and Maynard Grant on drums — came to be, and after that, “there was no going back”.
So far, they’ve played over 60 gigs, and their acts have also featured musicians like Nadisha Thomas, Kavita Thomas, Kyle Reeves and others.
Despite their guest acts, the average age of the band, grins Rajan, is 50.
“Most bands don’t usually perform the numbers we grew up listening to: of the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, Deep Purple and The Beatles.
Those who love the tunes from the real era of rock and roll come to listen to us,” smiles Rajan.
Bay of music
In 2013, Bluebirds relaunched their rock band at Bay 146.
Since then, they’ve played at least two gigs at the venue every year.
In 2015, they even launched their album, Rock Machine, there.
Today, they take the stage at their home turf to pay tribute to Led Zeppelin.
“Every musician plays music, but when you do a tribute, it means you thoroughly research them.
It’s a challenge to play a song for a diehard fan,” says Rajan, and Rajasekaran agrees that people recognise every note they play.
Given their energy and enthusiasm for music, however, it promises to be a great evening.
Bluebirds take the stage at 9 p.m. For reservations, call 97109 76876.
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.