 
entertainment Azhar Music Review: No Line, No Length Master of the Lens
Related Videos Delhi Not The Most Polluted City: Breaking Down WHO’s Latest Report Pebble Time Steel Watch Video Review Le Eco Le 1s Eco: Will India pay for content Kerala Twitterati Vent Ire At PM’s Somalia Remark: Here’s What He Said
By: Express Web Desk | New Delhi |
Published:May 12, 2016 6:58 pm
Priyanka Chorpa, who will be seen playing a villainous role in her Hollywood debut film Baywatch, is in the final week of her movie’s shoot schedule.Bollywood actress Priyanka Chorpa, who will be seen playing a villainous role in her Hollywood debut film Baywatch, is in the final week of her movie’s shoot schedule.
The film also stars WWE wrestler-turned-actor Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson in the lead role.
While Priyanka’s pictures from the sets of her Hollywood film are already doing the rounds on social media, the film’s director Seth Gordon shared another picture of the actress from the film’s sets on his Instagram page.
In the picture, Priyanka looks smoking hot in a colourful pencil dress while her director is seen standing at the back of a yacht.
Sharing the image on Instagram, Seth Gordon wrote: “On set with our inimitable & beautiful villainess @priyankachopra #evilneverlookedsogood #badgirl #baywatch #onset.”
Priyanka, who is playing the villain Victoria Leeds in Baywatch, seems to be liking being bad in every way.
Sharing the same image on her Instagram page, she replied to her film’s director: “Haha love creating Victoria with u @sethnodrog I seem to be liking being bad too much ?
?#Repost @sethnodrog with @repostapp.”
On May 11, Priyanka shared an image of Baywatch’s script wondering where her travels will take her next after wrapping up her shoot schedule.
She wrote: “Lots of work..Last week on #Baywatch .. Another one almost over.. Where will my travels take me next..
I wonder.. #nomad #traveldiaries.”
Baywatch is scheduled for a July 28, 2017, release.
© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd