The pop star doesn't appear too 'Sorry' for his post-concert behavior on Wednesday night!
Looks like Justin Bieber has turned his frown upside down.
The 22-year-old pop star, who has been in Boston as part of his travel schedule for the Purpose World Tour , was spotted at Storyville nightclub on Wednesday night following his concert at TD Garden.
His appearance came just two days after he looked rather glum and lonely while adventuring around the city solo, walking barefoot and chilling in trees .
A rep for the nightclub tells ET that the "Sorry" singer spent around two and a half hours inside the venue with a few friends.
When he arrived, he was "reserved with his friends in the corner of the nightclub," but ended up ordering about $2,400 worth of tequila and vodka shots.
That may explain why he later got up on the bar and started dancing along to Justin Timberlake's "My Love," with a lime from the tequila shot still in his mouth.
The bar dancing was captured by a few fans in attendance, who later posted the videos to social media.
Bieber checked into a hotel suite in Boston on Monday afternoon, but a source at the Four Seasons Hotel Boston tells ET that he hasn't spent too much time inside of it since his arrival.
According to the source, Bieber looked "sad" and "lonely" when he was spotted roaming the halls with his headphones on Monday night.
On Tuesday, he took to Instagram to reply to a user who called him a "prick" for not wanting to take photos with fans anymore, something he addressed in a previous post on the app.
"Braekess you are so right btw your Instagram name is fire," his message began.
"Years ago it was impossible to even take a picture at anytime -- not everyone was accessible to a camera, now everyone has a camera phone -- and now it's just a different thing."
"If you think setting boundaries is being a douche I'm the biggest douche around but I think it's smart and will be the only way I last," he continued.
"I wanna enjoy life and not be a slave to the world and their demands of what they think I need to do!!
I love the fact that I am able to make people happy but cmon if you truly were in my position you would understand how tiring it is ( boo hoo Justin get over it)."
"I'm going to keep making decisions I feel are fit for my growth and no human being will make me feel bad for it," he said in conclusion.
To hear more on why Bieber feels like a "zoo animal," watch the video below.
Photo: 247PAPS.TV/Splash News