Even as satellite channels are upping the ante with political debates and discussions through the day, takers for film-based shows continue.
Among them, weekly programmes on new films, and their order of rating are a sure draw.
Prime slots on Sundays are allotted for ratings for the week.
Sun TV (‘Top 10 Movies’) has been doing it for years, and so have others.
But among them, the infotainment channel, Thanthi TV, a comparatively recent entrant in the fray, makes considerable impact.
Critiquing films, with Saravana Subbiah as its anchor, ‘Box Office 1…2…3,’ aired every Sunday ranks the films of the week on a scale of One to Five.
Highs and the lows of the films are highlighted without any obvious bias.
‘Box Office …’s ambit is wide.
Popular English and Hindi films that enjoy a solid run in the State are included in the rankings.
That the latest in the ‘Captain America’ franchise, and the recent ‘Jungle Book’ which is doing well at the BO despite blockbusters like ‘Theri,’ occupied the fourth and fifth positions in this week’s line-up, shows the channel’s keenness to expand its viewer base and hold it intact.
Saravana Subbiah is a value addition.
His imposing screen presence, casual demeanour, fluency and clarity in thought and expression make an impact.
‘Box Office 1…2…3’ is more commendable than similar shows on other channels, including Sun’s ‘Top 10…’ which reigned supreme and is still a strong contender.
At present, if the viewer senses a lag in ‘Top 10…’ it is more because the show hasn’t re-invented itself for quite a while.
For starters, the way of ending every short analysis with the name of the film and a one-word comment on it, can be looked into.
Getting back to Saravana Subbiah, his career changes have been intriguing.
A film director turning actor is common.
But for one who had a dream debut directing Ajit (‘Citizen’) and later got to helm a decent romance (‘ABCD’), to halt the journey and curtail himself to portraying character roles, albeit ably, (the recent ‘Visaaranai’ is an example) was puzzling.
Adding to the enigma has been Subbiah’s paradigm shift as a host on television!
His rendezvous with the box may have begun some six years ago (Makkal TV’s ‘Kanavu Meippada Vaendum’) but it is with ‘Box Office 1…2…3’ that he draws viewers’ attention.
Just a point here — if Subbiah wishes to switch over to English often to make his anchoring spontaneous, he ought to work on the language more and ensure that the usages are error-free.
And a request to Thanthi TV’s ‘Box Office …’ team as a whole — small budget films may at least be mentioned on the show as a part of the new releases of the week.
For instance, how many would know that Jai Akash’s ‘Naan Yaar’ was released on the same day as Suriya’s ‘24’?
(Beginning a new column that will focus on various shows on television)
‘Box Office …’s ambit is wide.
Popular English and Hindi films that enjoy a solid run in the State are included in the rankings