Even Hillary Clinton isn't immune to George Clooney's infamous charm.
ET sat down with Clinton and her daughter, 36-year-old Chelsea Clinton, on Wednesday, when the presidential hopeful admitted she was recently starstuck by the Hail Caesar!
actor and his glamorous wife , Amal Clooney.
The couple hosted a fundraising dinner for Clinton in their Los Angeles home this month.
"Oh my gosh, when George Clooney and Amal did that event for me at their home, I was starstruck," Clinton exclusively tells ET's Kevin Frazier.
"I mean, obviously I'm a huge fan of George's, and I hadn't yet met Amal, but I knew people who knew her because she is a human rights lawyer, which I am enthusiastically impressed by.
So the idea that they were going to do this, and then we got to spend some personal time together?
That was pretty starstruck-y time ...
It was great, it was just terrific."
Photo: Getty Images
As for Chelsea, the Hollywood moment that stands out for her is when singer Katy Perry performed at a rally for her mother last October in Iowa.
A photo posted by Hillary Clinton (@hillaryclinton) on Oct 24, 2015 at 4:00pm PDT
"I think for me, when Katy Perry performed for my mom, and seeing all of the girls in the audience that were just inspired by my mom and Katy standing together, I was pretty starstuck by that moment," Chelsea says.
Aside from Clooney and Perry, plenty of celebs like Beyonce, Ellen DeGeneres, Kim Kardashian, Kanye West, and Steve Harvey, have shown their support for Clinton's presidential campaign.
Obviously, her campaign is only set to get more intense given the news that Senator Ted Cruz bowed out of the Republican presidential race on Tuesday, after a loss to controversial candidate Donald Trump in Indiana.
"I think people assumed that it would happen sooner or later," Clinton tells ET about the latest twist in the race to the White House.
Clinton is now turning her focus to Trump, calling him a "loose cannon" in our interview.
"I know a little bit about what it takes to be a president, and I think it's a risk to have a loose cannon like Donald Trump even coming close to running our country," she tells ET bluntly.
"So, the campaign is going to be about what kind of future we want, and how we're going to get there, and who's best prepared and equipped to handle all the responsibilities of the job."
For her part, Chelsea is ready for the political attacks her mom is bound to face in the coming months.
"I think for better or worse, I don't remember a time when she wasn't being attacked by people who didn't want to see her succeed -- whether she was fighting for early childhood education in Arkansas, or universal healthcare in the 1990s -- so I think I'm quite accustomed to her being under attack," Chelsea says.
"And I know she never forgets who she's fighting for or what she's fighting for.
I'm more concerned about how I'll explain it to my daughter [1-year-old Charlotte].
...
I'm more focused on that because I know my mom can take care of herself."
Clearly, Chelsea -- who's currently pregnant with baby number two -- has complete faith in her mother.
"I think my mom's extraordinary in so many ways, and I'm completely biased toward her," she smiles when asked about Perry recently donning a tee-shirt calling the 68-year-old former first lady "badass."
Photo: Getty Images
"I mean, I hope that my daughter Charlotte and her future little sister or little brother feel the same way about me someday that I feel about my mom," Chelsea adds.
"I'm just in awe of her strength and her grace, her resilience and her can-do attitude that translates into getting a lot done."
ET chatted with Chelsea last September, when she revealed she's actually good friends with Trump's daughter , 34-year-old Ivanka Trump.
"Ivanka and I talk about everything," Chelsea said.
"I'm so grateful she's my friend.
I think she's a great woman, and I support her as I support all my friends."
Playing EXCLUSIVE: Hillary Clinton Admits to Getting Starstruck Over George Clooney, Talks Ted Cruz Dropout