Dr. Prabha Atre is a name to reckon with in the field of Hindustani classical music.
She is not just a musician, but a profound scholar, academician, thinker, author, poet, composer, founder of institutions and an organiser too.
She has written a number of books and recorded many albums.
To celebrate her 80th birth anniversary, her disciples and members of her ‘Swaramayee Gurukul’ organised ‘Pratibimb- Sahasra Chandra Darshana Swar-Prabha’, music festival in association with the Habitat World.
The two-day festival held at the Stein auditorium under the aegis of Sur Sagar Society of Dilli Gharana was conceived as a festival of Dr. Prabha Atre’s classical and light classical compositions presented by various artistes.
Dr. Karan Singh and Suresh Prabhu spoke highly about Dr. Prabha Atre’s valuable contribution in the field of music, while inaugurating the festival.
They also released the books and CDs of her compositions on this occasion.
Pandit Venkatesh Kumar gave an impressive presentation of Dr. Prabha Atre’s Bandishs (compositions) as a full fledged concert.
Opening with the sombre evening raga Marwa he chose the Bada Khayal “Vikal jiya mora….” set to Vilambit Ek-tala and followed with the Chhota khayal “Kit jaun taj charan tore…” in drut Ektala where he explored the deep crevices of the serene raga echoing the yearning depicted in the composition.
The next and contrasting raga was Durga, with an invocation of Durga in “Mata Bhavaani Kaali….” in Teen-tala before he concluded with “Ram Bhagat Shri Hanuman…” in Mishra Khamaj.
Kumar presented the beautiful bandishes not only with crystal clear enunciation but also underlining the bhava of the lyrics.
Earlier in the evening Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan opened the two-day festival with Atre’s compositions in raga Yaman with a Bada Khayal “Guru charan nit laabho…” in Vilambit Ek-Tala and the Chhota Khayal on the same theme in Teen-tala, but then he habitually digressed towards the compositions of Amir Khusrau.
He had melodious support on sarangi by Murad Ali and on harmonium by Zakir Dhaulpuri, while Akbar Latif accompanied him on tabla.
The festival offered Atre’s light classical compositions next evening presented by vocalist Dhanashree Pandit Rai and Odissi dancer Jhelam Paranjape, both from Mumbai.
Dhanashre opened with a thumri and a dadra in raga Mishra Des then alternated with thumri and dadra compositions in ragas Gara, Kanakangi and Manjh Khamaj before concluding with a Bhairavi bhajan.
Adhering to the concept of the festival, Jhelam also presented the authentic Odissi repertoire from Mangalacharan to Pallavi, Abhinay and Moksh; all based on the compositions of Atre.
The audience were so inspired by the lovely presentations of her bandishes that the books released got sold like hot cakes.