New Delhi: Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh courted arrest for violating prohibitory orders and going ahead with their march towards Parliament after holding a anti-government rally on Friday.
However, after a brief while at the police station, they were allowed to drive to Parliament.
Earlier this morning, the Gandhis and Manmohan Singh launched a sharp attack on the Centre at the 'Save Democracy' rally.
Congress accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of destablising democratically-elected governments in Arunachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
"Modi government is trying to destroy roots of democracy," said Congress President Sonia Gandhi at the 'Save Democracy' rally.
"Congress will not buckle under any form of injustice and will take detractors head on," she added.
The rally, to be held at Jantar Mantar, is being organised amid a face-off between the Opposition party and the BJP led-coalition government at the Centre over various issues, including the AgustaWestland scandal.
Here are the live updates:
11.15 am: The Gandhis and former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh courted arrest as they defied the police and went ahead with their march towards Parliament after holding a anti-government rally.
Congress leaders and workers protest outside Parliament street police station after party leadership were detained during their protest march.
(Photo: Twitter)
10.40 am: Addressing a rally on Thursday, Congress accused the BJP of destablising democratically-elected governments in Arunachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
Life has taught me to struggle, we have faced a lot of challenges.
They dont know what we are made of, says Sonia Gandhi.
Nothing new for us to fight anti-national elements.
The jungles of Uttarakhand are burning and nothing is being done about it, because the state has no government.
BJP gave the public false dreams just to come to power.
In the blink of an eye, BJP brands anyone and everyone an 'anti-national'.
Congress-led governments in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh dislodged by Modi regime by use of money power.
10.35 am: Congress is like a flowing river, no matter how many false allegations you level against it, it will not divert from its path,says former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh.
10.30 am: Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, "Whoever talks against Modi ji and BJP, false accusations are made on that person."
"BJP destabilized Congress Govt in Arunachal, removed elected leaders and broke all laws," he adds.
9.30 am: BJP leaders sat in protest at the Gandhi statue in the Parliament against corruption of Congress.
9.30 am: Farmers are committing suicide, there is drought in the nation and Modi govt is sleeping.
They should wake up and smell the coffee, says Congress leader RS Surjewala.
Setting the tone for the rally, party spokesman Jairam Ramesh accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of "masterminding a conspiracy to implicate" Congress leadership in the AgustaWestland case.
"The cat is out by the manner in which the Prime Minister last night tweeted and hailed Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar's reply in Rajya Sabha on the issue.
It shows not only his mindset but his strategy too", Mr Ramesh said.
Attacking the Union Defence Minister, the Congress leader said in fact Mr Parrikar's reply was one of the "worst examples in parliamentary history" as instead of responding to issues raised by the opposition, he read out a "catalogue of accusations and charges".
He accused Mr Parrikar of not maintaining the dignity of a Defence Minister by "resorting to a political speech".
Ramesh said the rally was being organised to also protest against the government's "assault" on central universities as seen in the JNU, Hyderabad and Allahabad.
On whether like-minded parties like JD(U) and the Left have been invited, he said it was a Congress rally.
While party leader Randeep Surjewala had last week said the party would 'gherao' Parliament, Mr Ramesh merely said after the rally the party would take out a march to Parliament.
Party leaders have said Friday's march was also to highlight the drought and the agrarian crisis that has led to a spate of suicides by farmers and affected 40 crore people in several states.