1/91
Recently, Tiger Shroff had to bear the brunt of his joke at an interview.
The actor who was slammed for his sexist comment said that he was joking but the joke was taken too seriously.
For the uninitiated, when asked about the kind of woman he would like to marry, Tiger replied by saying, "I will get married to a girl from the village.
When I reach home, I want a massage so that I can get relaxed.
She should stay at home, keep the house clean and give me home-cooked food.
I like girls who are the housewife-type".Recently, in an interview with BollywoodLife.com, when asked about the same comment, the 'Baaghi' actor said, "Someone was just trying to pull me down unnecessarily and find something bad to say about me.
Whoever was in the room was laughing, having a good time.
I was joking around and it was clear that I was joking.
It is something I would never say.
I don't talk like that, for people who know.
But anyway, I think I should be more careful next time and it's my fault".
For the record, Tiger had exclusively issued a statement to TOI.com just after the controversy, requesting people to not believe everything they read.
He had said that he is all for woman power and loves women who are strong and independent and always believe they are equal to, if not stronger than men.
While Tiger may be new to controversies, check out which actor has been named in Panama Papers leak after Amitabh Bachchan...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Tiger-Shroff-Someone-was-just-trying-to-pull-me-down-unnecessarily/eventshow/52184923.cmsRecently, Tiger Shroff had to bear the brunt of his joke at an interview.
The actor who was slammed for his sexist comment said that he was joking but the joke was taken too seriously.
For the uninitiated, when asked about the kind of woman he would like to marry, Tiger replied by saying, “I will get married to a girl from the village.
When I reach home, I want a massage so that I can get relaxed.
She should stay at home, keep the house clean and give me home-cooked food.
I like girls who are the housewife-type”.Recently, in an interview with BollywoodLife.com, when asked about the same comment, the 'Baaghi' actor said, “Someone was just trying to pull me down unnecessarily and find something bad to say about me.
Whoever was in the room was laughing, having a good time.
I was joking around and it was clear that I was joking.
It is something I would never say.
I don’t talk like that, for people who know.
But anyway, I think I should be more careful next time and it’s my fault”.
For the record, Tiger had exclusively issued a statement to TOI.com just after the controversy, requesting people to not believe everything they read.
He had said that he is all for woman power and loves women who are strong and independent and always believe they are equal to, if not stronger than men.
While Tiger may be new to controversies, check out which actor has been named in Panama Papers leak after Amitabh Bachchan...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/After-Bachchans-Ajay-Devgn-named-in-Panama-Papers-leak/eventshow/52108263.cmsActor Ajay Devgn is known to be a private person; someone who doesn't court controversies and someone who doesn't like to make headlines for the wrong reasons.
However, the actor has grabbed the eyeballs for not-so-right reasons as his name has cropped up in the infamous Panama Papers leak.
Few days ago, superstar Amitabh Bachchan and his daughter-in-law, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan were named in the Panama Papers leak.
And the new name to join the bandwagon is that of Ajay Devgn who, as per a report on Spotboye.com, is said to have bought 1000 shares of a British Virgin Islands company, Marylebone Entertainment Ltd., which was incorporated in 2013.
The report further claims that the actor bought the shares in the name of his company Nysa Yug Entertainment, which he owns with his wife Kajol.
The actor has admitted to holding the said overseas account.
Ajay has further stated that he has made proper disclosure about the same while filing tax returns.
Amitabh Bachchan and Aishwarya Rai faced a lot of flak after their names emerged in the Panama Papers leak wherein they were accused of holding offshore accounts and being actively involved in the proceedings of those companies through video-conferences.Click on the next slide to know about other B-town celebs who were recently mired in controversies...- Hiten J Trivedi
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Kabir-Khan-says-he-cant-go-to-Pakistan-again/eventshow/52040632.cms'Bajrangi Bhaijaan' director Kabir Khan was heckled at Karachi airport by a mob of protestors who even waved shoes at him.
However, the good-natured director played down the issue and asked the Indian media to ignore the incident.
In an interview to Bollywoodlife.com, he reiterated that the incident should be overlooked as the common man of both the countries did not believe or want any violence.
He said that the protestors were livid at him for showing Pakistan in a bad light in his film 'Phantom' and did not want to listen to any reason.
On being asked if he would visit the neighbouring country again, the 'Ek Tha Tiger' director replied that his wife, Mini Mathur, has made it clear that he will not go there again!Meanwhile, check some other celebs who are mired in controversies...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Aishwarya-Rais-petition-to-remove-Salman-as-Goodwill-ambassador/eventshow/51988944.cmsA lot has been written and said about Bollywood superstar, Salman Khan, being appointed as the Rio Olympics' Goodwill ambassador for the Indian contingent.
While many have come in support of the actor, some are just downright against the idea of a Bollywood actor representing the country at the Olympics.
And so it goes, someone has started an online petition on Change.org, urging Salman to be banned from being the Goodwill ambassador.
However, what's surprising is that the person happens to be Aishwarya Rai.
Now, it is not known for sure whether it is the actress herself who has begun this petition, or interestingly, a person who is former Miss World's namesake.Click on the next slide to read about other celebs who are mired in controversies...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Rock-On-2-co-stars-Shraddha-Kapoor-and-Prachi-Desai-share-a-rocky-bond/eventshow/51878124.cmsThere have been rumours of a tiff between Shraddha Kapoor and Prachi Desai who will be seen sharing the screen space in ‘Rock On 2.’ When enquired about the same, Prachi rubbished the rumours terming them as completely ridiculous and said that they both share a great rapport and get along really well.
She claimed that even Shraddha will laugh off the rumours when she hears about it.
Prachi also said that although they don’t meet often because of their schedules but the bond between them remains intact.
Well, we hope the ladies go a long way together.It's not just Shraddha and Prachi who are mired in a controversy.
Know what happened when Prince William stumped Anil Kapoor...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Anil-Kapoor-stumped-by-Prince-William-literally/eventshow/51838333.cmsAny event featuring Prince William and Kate Middleton, the Duke and Dutchess of Cambridge is bound to be formal.
However, when Anil Kapoor met William, it turned out to be hilarious and, as far as the Jhakaas actor is concerned, quite embarrassing, as per a report on BollywoodLife.
It so happened that the Duke instantly remembered meeting Anil before.
However, Anil politely denied.
While William insisted that he had, in fact, met Anil, the latter continued to hold that the Prince might have seen one of his films.
It wasn’t until the Duke reminded Anil that they had met at the BAFTA Awards, that the latter realized his folly.
Thankfully, both of them laughed it off.While Anil’s forgetfulness has landed him in a minor controversy, move on to read about other celebs who’ve been mired in controversies…
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Hrithik-Roshan-forced-to-reduce-endorsement-fee-due-to-Kangana/eventshow/51820677.cmsThe Hrithik Roshan - Kangana Ranaut legal battle is one of the ugliest B-Town has ever witnessed.
And looks like Hrithik is paying the price, quite literally, for being mired in this controversy.
According to a report on Spotboye.com, Hrithik Roshan has apparently been asked to reduce his fees for endorsements.
The report states that following his legal battle with the 'Queen' actress, brands have been shying away from signing the actor for endorsements targeted to families.
A suitcase brand that Hrithik endorses, revised his contract with them and the new fee is lower than his earlier charge, states the report.
However, close friends of Hrithik deny any such development in the contract with the said suitcase brand.
When we tried reaching the said brand, the spokesperson of the suitcase brand couldn't be contacted.
Reportedly, the actor's manager even approached marketing teams of FMCG products in the hope that Hrithik could be the face of the brands, but the teams allegedly refused to oblige.
Ouch!Click on the next slide to read about other B-Town celebs mired in controversies...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Rumoured-Dabangg-3-actress-leaks-topless-pics-for-publicity/eventshow/51773400.cmsBollywood star Salman Khan's superhit franchise 'Dabangg' is allegedly gearing up for its third instalment.
And rumours mills have been abuzz that London-based actress Pearl Raah has been considered to play the lead opposite Sallu in 'Dabangg 3.'
A press release which reads - 'Dabaang 3 actress Pearl Raah’s Topless Pics Leaked?'
has been circulating around lately.
The release also went on to mention that the 18-year-old was a 'close friend' of Salman's and how he has been regularly keeping in touch with her.
However, a source told BollywoodLife.com that nothing has been finalised for 'Dabangg 3' as yet.
And that the leaked photos of Pearl were deliberately sent across for publicity.
And what's even more shocking is that Salman Khan doesn't even know her, revealed the source.
The source further added that the girl just wants to enjoy the fame of being associated with a Salman Khan film and hence has been doing all this to come into the spotlight.
Oh boy!
We wonder how Salman Khan will react to Pearl's antics.While this act of Pearl is definitely controversial, click on the next slide to read about other B-Town celebs who are mired in controversies...
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Did-Kareena-Kapoor-Khan-ditch-Ki-Ka-success-party/eventshow/51739610.cmsThis comes as a shocker considering Kareena Kapoor Khan is not known to give success parties of her films a miss.
But she chose to do that with the recently held success party of her film 'Ki & Ka' which has been termed a 'commercial success' within a week of its release.
Could that be the reason why Bebo decided to stay away from the celebrations?
Well, that's something only she could tell us.
However, when her co-star Arjun Kapoor was asked about Kareena's absence from the success bash, he said that she was busy shooting in Bangkok and hence couldn't be a part of the celebration.
However, shockingly enough, the fact is that the Begum of Bollywood was very much in town and was partying at her best friend Manish Malhotra's residence along with sister Karisma Kapoor.
Whatever the reason maybe, but we feel that the director R Balki might not be too happy to know that Bebo didn't attend the success press conference despite being in town and instead opted to party with her designer friend.Bebo's royal miss to the success party of 'Ki & Ka' has given way to another controversy.
Meanwhile, click on the next slide to check other Bollywood celebrities who are mired in controversies...- Hiten J Trivedi
/bollywood-celebrities-mired-in-controversies/Revealed-Why-Deepika-Padukone-gave-SLBs-victory-party-a-miss/eventshow/51692789.cmsFor a few weeks now, rumours of Sanjay Leela Bhansali and his Mastani, Deepika Padukone, drifting apart have been doing the rounds of media circuits.
What further added fuel to the flames was Dippy's absence from Sanjay's victory party post his National Award win, despite the fact that she was in the country then.
Given that SLB was awarded for his masterpiece, 'Bajirao Mastani,' which starred Deepika as the lead, the girl's absence could not go unnoticed.
However, according to a report on Pinkvilla.com, a source close to the actress has revealed why she gave Bhansali's party a miss.
Reportedly, DP had met Sanjay right before the ceremony to congratulate him.
In fact, she was probably the first one to do so.
But due to time constraints, DP could not celebrate with him.
The source divulged that Deepika was only in the country for about six hours.
Well, now that explains!While DP and SLB have found their way out of the rift controversy, move on to read about other celebs who were recently mired in some or the other controversy...- Kiran Kaur