We look back on 15 years of forensics surprises as the last spin-off ends on CBS.
Since its premiere on Oct. 6, 2000, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation has been a staple in the world of procedural dramas.
After 16 years and three spin-offs -- Miami, NY and Cyber -- the last remaining show, CSI: Cyber , was officially canceled by CBS on Thursday.
To pay tribute to the primetime powerhouse, here are six CSI moments we'll never forget.
1.
When Nick Stokes Was Buried Alive ( CSI, Season 5, Episode 24-25)
Photo: Tumblr
Nick (George Eads ) gets kidnapped and buried alive, while the rest of the CSI team are shown video footage of him trapped and suffering from claustrophobia.
The team races against time to find their friend before his oxygen runs out -- oh, and there's a bomb buried under Nick's "coffin," too.
Fun fact: The two-parter, titled "Grave Danger," was directed by Quentin Tarantino and remains one of the series' most infamous (and traumatic) episodes.
2.
When Marisol Was Murdered ( CSI: Miami , Season 4, Episode 24)
Horatio Caine's (David Caruso) wife, Marisol, is shot in front of her brother, Eric Delko (Adam Rodriguez), and ultimately dies of her injuries.
This sends the two enraged men on a quest to track down her killer.
3.
When Mac's Learned the Identity of the 333 Stalker( CSI: NY , Season 4, Episode 10)
Photo: CBS
The chilling revelation that Mac's (Gary Sinise) season four stalker is his childhood friend Andrew Davis, a.k.a.
Drew Bedford (Kerr Smith), who used the apartment number where tragedy struck in their past, 333, as his signature.
4.
When Python's Exacted His Revenge ( CSI: Cyber, Season 2, Episode 5)
Finding out Cyber's most notorious criminal, Python, was actually in their office was bad enough, but then he kidnaps Avery's (Patricia Arquette ) surrogate daughter, making the team decipher a series of elaborate puzzles in an attempt to save her life.
It was heartbreaking watching Grace (Alisha Boe) be injected with chemicals as Avery is unable to get to her.
5.
When Grissom and Sara's Relationship Was Revealed ( CSI, Season 8, Episode 7)
Photo: CBS
After years spent either ignoring, denying and misunderstanding their feelings for one another, Grissom (William Petersen) and Sara (Jorja Fox) finally revealed that not only were they a couple, but they'd been romantically involved for some time!
6.
When Greg Wore the Showgirl Headdress ( CSI, Season 1, Episode 15)
Photo: Tumblr
"Table Stakes" is definitely one of the most memorable episodes of the entire series -- and it was in the very first season -- due in no small part to the scene where Greg Sanders (Eric Szmanda) dances around wearing evidence: A giant showgirl headdress.
In the end, we guess you could say these past 16 years have been pretty sweet.
Photo: CBS
Want even more CSI ?
Look back of 15 years of the show's best moments in the video below.
Photo: CBS