A free app highlighting the pioneering achievements of Sir David Attenborough, who celebrates his 90th birthday today, is being created.
The Story of Life app will bring together more than 1,000 of Sir David's most memorable television moments and will allow users to discover hundreds of animals and environments.
It will include clips taken from the broadcaster's earliest work on Zoo Quest through to his more recent work.
Sir David said: "Knowing and understanding the natural world is one of the greatest gifts that humans can possess.
If we lose our connection with nature then we lose ourselves.
"I've had the great privilege of being allowed to travel and discover the infinite variety of life on our planet and to share these stories with audiences all over the world.
Play video "Attenborough Demands Action"
Video:Attenborough Demands Action"To keep sharing those stories in a digital age means taking them online and I hope The Story of Life will reach and inspire a whole new generation."
The app is being developed by BBC Earth with innovation company AKQA.
It will be available in the autumn on both Apple and Android devices.
Sir David, one of the world's most famous naturalists, has been hailed as "a god of wildlife presenters" on his birthday today.
Springwatch presenter Michaela Strachan told the Press Association: "I think when you think of wildlife programmes and presenters, he's God, isn't he?
"He's up there and we are all really proud of him and have all been inspired by him.
"And he is unbelievably intelligent, not just on wildlife but on many other subjects as well.
"I don't know anybody that doesn't like David Attenborough.
I know lots of people that don't like us but everyone loves him."
Sir David served in the Royal Navy from 1947 to 1949 before joining the BBC.
He was initially discouraged from appearing on screen because his bosses thought his teeth were too big but he launched his Zoo Quest series in 1954.
He has since fronted a string of spectacular series including Life On Earth, The Living Planet, The Trials Of Life, The Blue Planet and Planet Earth.
Gallery: 'God Of Wildlife Presenters' Celebrates 90th Brithday
Sir David Attenborough (left) with his wife Jane Oriel and older brother and film actor Richard Attenborough at St Anne's Church, Kew Green (1950).
The broadcaster celebrates his 90th birthday on 8 May.
Here are some images from his 60-year television career