So, Bombay Times has crowned Ranveer Singh as the most Desirable Man of 2015.
We ask you BollywoodLifers, who according to you is Mr Desirable?
Well in recent times there are many leading actors including Ranveer who have made a deep impact on us.
Their performances, personalities and individual charm have made us go crazy for them!
Okay, we will make this easy for you.
Here are seven of the most attractive leading men of Bollywood.
Go on, tell us who to do you think fits the bill of Mr Desirable.
Vote, without fail!
Well, he is and forever will be our Blazing Bajirao.
He is sauve, uninhibited, sexy and abashedly original.
Not conventionally good looking, but Ranveer makes up for it with his inherent charm and oodles of chutzpah.
He is clearly a strong contender for this enviable spot!
What do you think?
He is our original Mr Desirable.
He has those enviable chocolate boy looks, intense eyes and oodles of charm that make him extremely desirable.
Now that he is single again, he has back onto the bachelor bandwagon.
He has given one of most powerful performances of lifetime with Tamasha.
Though it didn’t fare too well at the box office , it sure put Ranbir in a different league altogether.
He has given one of this biggest blockbuster this year with Kapoor and Sons and has proved his detractors wrong by showing off his acting chops.
He is good looking too.
Do you think he fits the bill of the Most Desirable man of Bollywood?
The Fitoor actor is insanely attractive.
You cannot ignore his expressive eyes, dimpled simple and his curly, tousled hair!
He definitely is eye candy and also extremely talented.
Vote for him if you dig his handsome looks and abundant talent.
Well, easily, he is one of the most viable commercial heroes in his age group.
He is a bankable actor, an excellent dancer and a versatile performer.
He has pulled off an intense role in Badlapur, showed off his dancing skills in ABCD 2 and floored us with his romantic side in Dilwale, Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania and Student Of The Year.
He is a total lady killer, oh yeah!
His sexy voice, his evocative eyes and defined jawline is enough to make any female fan feel like jelly.
On the top of that, he is an brilliant actor who majorly impressed us with his strong role in Kapoor and Sons.
He has made great strides in Bollywood in a short span of time and is one of the most recognised performers of the industry today.
Well, he has already hooked us on with his BADASS rockstar act in Udta Punjab and will be seen as a sleek army man in Vishal Bhardwaj’s Rangoon.
Well, Shahid’s boyish charm has always earned him a lot of female fans.
Face it, he is cute and always will be.
Right, girls?