The makers of Dhoom franchise have finally decided to show some mercy on fans.
If reports are to be believed, the audience won't get to see Abhishek Bachchan or Uday Chopra in Dhoom Reloaded anymore.
Buzz has it that the new film in the franchise is said to be "for the young", and what better choice than Ranveer Singh to play the protagonist.
ALSO READ: Salman Khan and Vaani Kapoor to star together in Dhoom Reloaded?
And this isn't all.
They are planning to rope in Salman Khan to play the baddie in Dhoom Reloaded.
According to a report in DNA , talks are on with Salman and Ranveer to play the antagonist and protagonist, respectively, in Dhoom Reloaded.
A source was quoted as telling the daily, "Aditya Chopra wants Dhoom Reloaded to be a film for the youth.
Who better to play the dashing hero than Ranveer Singh, YRF's current blue-eyed boy?
Talks are on for Salman Khan to play the negative role so if both get finalised, it will be Salman and Ranveer for India's most successful franchise."
It things go as planned, Ranveer, who is currently shooting for Aditya Chopra's directorial venture Befikre in Paris, will be seen in another strong role in YRF's most-talked-about franchise.
In fact, Salman and Ranveer fans will have a reason to rejoice as they will get to see their favourite stars lock horns on the silver screen for the first time.
After Aamir Khan played a baddie in Dhoom 3 and Shah Rukh Khan displayed some shades of grey in his last release Fan, it seems Salman is also keen to play a negative role on 70mm.
The source further informed that Dhoom Reloaded will go on floors in early 2017 and is expected to be shot across exotic foreign locales.
At the same time, the source added that the makers haven't zeroed in on any female actor.
"Vijay Krishna Acharya is expected to direct the fourth Dhoom sequel too (he had directed Dhoom:3).
A teaser poster was released in December last year.
Amitabh Bachchan is also said to be part of Dhoom Reloaded, but the female lead hasn't been decided as yet," he added.