 
 
 
ABC is adding even more Shondaland to its roster for the 2016-17 broadcast season.
The network on Thursday renewed freshman drama The Catch for a second season and handed out a series pickup to Romeo and Juliet sequel Still Star-Crossed .
This season's fourth TGIT drama, The Catch's renewal is a bit of a surprise.
The Shondaland drama, which took over How to Get Away With Murder 's spot on the schedule in the prime Thursdays at 10 p.m. slot, was behind the proverbial eight ball from the start.
Showrunner and series creator Jennifer Schuur disagreed with exec producer Shonda Rhimes on the direction of the Mireille Enos starrer, so Grey's Anatomy and Scandal alum Allan Heinberg was brought in to redevelop the ABC Studios series after it already had been sold domestically and internationally.
Parenthood alum Peter Krause became the new male lead as the drama also underwent a creative overhaul.
Since launching in March, the series has averaged a 1.9 rating among adults 18-49 and 8 million total viewers including DVR — off dramatically from Murder .
ABC insiders were said to be unhappy with the show's overall performance, but a renewal for the series and pickup of Still Star-Crossed could help accommodate Scandal star Kerry Washington's second pregnancy with rumors that the drama could be held for midseason.
Still Star-Crossed , which recently wrapped a late production in Spain, is a period drama that picks up where Romeo and Juliet left off.
It charts the treachery, palace intrigue and ill-fated romances of the Montagues and Capulets in the wake of the young lovers’ tragic fate.
It's based on the book by Melinda Taub.
Clara Rugaard (as Juliet), Anthony Head, Lashana Lynch, Zuleikha Robinson, Medalion Rahimi, Ebonee Noel, Torrance Coombs, Wade Briggs, Medalion Rahimi, Ebonee Noel, Sterling Sulieman, Dan Hildebrand, Susan Woolridge and Grant Bowler star in the drama, which was written by Heather Mitchell ( Grey's Anatomy, Scandal ).
Rhimes, Shondaland topper Betsy Beers and Michael Goldstein exec produce.
Michael Offer directed the pilot.
Shondaland, meanwhile, still has its first comedy pilot, Toast , also in the mix.
With the renewal and pickup, prolific producer Rhimes will have five series on the air next season — all via her longtime home at ABC Studios.
May 12, 2016
3:30pm PT by
Lesley Goldberg
Giving Shonda Rhimes five dramas on ABC next season.