Rakesh Roshan unhappy with ‘Raees’ – ‘Kaabil’ clash?
Sanjay Dutt: Let me patch myself first and then will think about patching others
Watch: Shah Rukh-AbRam's play time at Eden Gardens
'Trishul' completes 38 years of its release
Ilaiyaraaja writes to I&B Ministry over dilution of music category in National Awards
Divya Dutta: Audience still keen to know about 'hero' first
From 'Trishul' to 'TE3N,' Amitabh Bachchan completes 'circle of life'
Riteish Deshmukh thanks fans on reaching two million Instagram followers
Emraan Hashmi gets nostalgic as 'Jannat 2' completes four years
Evelyn @ La Hair Affaire TV actress in stylish hijab Salman's shoot with his nephews Azhar @ Radio Mirchi 63rd National Film Awards Amar Singh launches Bhouri Jacqueline takes rickshaw ride Sid's new hairstyle
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Ranbir Kapoor, who is all decked up to be the on-screen Sanjay Dutt in his biopic, was recently seen spending some quality time with Dutt's kids.
ANI | May 5, 2016, 12.43 PM ISTRanbir Kapoor, who is all decked up to be the on-screen Sanjay Dutt in his biopic, was recently seen spending some quality time with Dutt's kids.
The 56-year-old actor's wife Manyata Dutt recently took to her Instagram account and shared a snap of the 33-year-old actor with her kids.
Ranbir Kapoor turns superhero?
Ranbir Kapoor might play a super hero in Milan Luthria’s next titled Sikandar Comics, if the director has his way.
Meanwhile, talking about his biopic in a recent event, Sanjay said, "My biopic is being made and Raju Hirani is directing it.
I won't act in it.
Ranbir Kapoor will.
So it will be a problem for him because he will have to grow his hair, will have to get lean and then make body.
It's a challenge for an actor."
Listen to the songs of Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani on Gaana.com Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia