After watching that heartbreaking, ugly cry-inducing, miserable elevator ride from hell ( literally !)
in last Sunday's episode, our Emma and Killian-loving spirits have officially been crushed.
But since Once Upon a Time 's magical creators, Adam Horowitz and Eddy Kitsis , have told us countless times that this is a series about hope, we had to know: Is Killian really gone for good?
"That's what they're saying on the Internet," Kitsis teased with a laugh to ET over the phone earlier this week.
To which Horowitz added, "Yeah, I'm looking on my Twitter feed right now and I'm seeing a lot of emotional fans."
Before we grilled them for a more concrete answer (more on that later!
), the showrunners revealed that they didn’t want to make Emma's Killian-saving mission an easy one.
"Emma went down to the Underworld saying she was going to split her heart and bring him back," Horowitz explained.
"And if it had been that simple, I think it just wouldn’t have been that interesting.
So it needed to not be that simple and it sure wasn't."
No, it sure as hell wasn't.
Photo: ABC
In fact, we had a bone to pick with our favorite executive producers.
Since the past 20 episodes of the season have been spent torturing this couple with Dark One curses and Underworld misadventures, we thought it was time to finally get an answer to the question that millions of fans have been pondering: Have Emma and Killian ever… consummated their relationship?
(FYI: Our cheeks are still burning from asking that question.)
"You know what?"
Kitsis began with a playful laugh.
"I think that is a personal question that you would have to ask Hook or Emma, so if you ever see them at a bar, you should ask them."
"We're just the writers," he added coyly.
"We don’t ask what they do behind closed doors…"
We don’t know about you, but we're taking that as a "Yes."
As we approach this Sunday's penultimate episode, we suggest that you stock up on a mountain of tissues to combat the river of tears that will undoubtedly be flowing.
"This weekend, in a lot of ways, is like the finale to the Hades arc," Kitsis shared.
"I think that you are going to see a lot of the characters going through some really heavy and emotional situations."
"I think this weekend will break a lot of hearts and will also give some people hope," he continued.
"It's going to be everything.
Everything you expect from a finale, so this is just the beginning of a three-episode, all-killer, no-filler season-ender."
Photo: ABC
Which brings us back to our initial question: Should fans still have hope that Emma's true love could come back, or is it time to start moving on?
"I will say that question gets answered this weekend," Kitsis promised.
"So they only just have to watch this Sunday night to have their questions answered."
But if you can't wait that long, make sure you check back to ETonline on Friday, May 6 for an exclusive scoop-packed look at what's ahead for the last three episodes of the season!
Once Upon a Time airs Sundays at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Photo: ABC