A new study shows that we burn many more daily calories than other apes.
Evolution works on a strict energy budget.
You can’t have flapping wings and a huge body and venom and fast legs and a big brain.
That’s why, for example, animals that reproduce faster tend to die earlier.
They divert energy towards making new bodies, and away from maintaining their own.
Compared to other apes, we reproduce more often (or, at least, those of us in traditional societies do) and our babies are bigger when they’re born and we live longer.
And, as if to show off, our brains are much larger, and these huge organs sap some 20 percent of our total energy.
“We tend to have our cake and eat it too,” says Herman Pontzer from Hunter College.
“These traits that make us human are all energetically costly.
Some scientists have suggested that we paid for our large brains by reducing the size of another costly organ—the gut.
Others have said that we freed up some energy by evolving to walk more efficiently.
These explanations all assume that humans work to the same energy budget as other apes.
We supposedly have the same metabolic rates as them and the same number of calories to burn, so we had to fuel our energetically costly traits by making trade-offs.
By finally measuring the daily energy expenditures of humans and other apes, Pontzer has found that we actually burn hundreds more calories every day.
Even when we’re all at rest, our metabolic rates are higher.
So, we didn’t balance our energy sheets by making cuts.
Pontzer and his team measured the energy expenditures of 56 chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans that lived in zoos and sanctuaries, as well as 141 people from the United States, Ghana, South Africa, Seychelles, and Jamaica.
They gave each individual a glass of water containing distinctive isotopes of hydrogen and oxygen.
Both isotopes were eventually expelled in the volunteers’ urine, sweat, and water vapor, but the oxygen was also lost through exhaled carbon dioxide.
By measuring the rate at which both isotopes were lost, and subtracting the hydrogen from the oxygen, the team could accurately track how much carbon dioxide the apes were exhaling.
And that, in turn, precisely reflected how many calories they were burning.
“We now see that everything’s working towards providing a larger energy budget with the smallest costs and biggest safety margins.” The team found that after adjusting for size, the humans were burning 400 more calories every day than the chimps and bonobos, 635 more than the gorillas, and 820 more than the orangutans.
The team carefully chose volunteers who didn’t work in manual labor, and who were just as active as the zoo-bound apes.
Even at rest, they were burning hundreds more calories a day than their ape cousins.
Besides, Pontzer and others have shown that , surprisingly, captive mammals burn the same amount of energy as their wild kin.
A Hadza hunter-gatherer, though extremely active, has roughly the same energy expenditure as desk-bound moi.
“We think of daily energy expenditure as a function of how active we are, but it’s more about a species’ evolutionary history than its lifestyle.” We, for example, seem to have supported our bigger brains, longer lives, and faster reproductive cycles by upping our energy budgets.
“This was a long-lasting gap in our knowledge,” says Karin Isler from the University of Zurich, “and the results are very important to understand the peculiarity of human evolution within the broader picture of primates and mammals.”
“This resets our understanding of the human energetic landscape,” adds Rachel Carmody from Harvard University.
That is, we can see many aspects of human life not as ways of making cuts to compensate for costly brains, but as means of boosting our energy budgets altogether.
We cooked our food and walked more efficiently, allowing us to extract more net calories from the same amount of foraging.
We divided that foraging between hunters and gatherers, and we started sharing our food to a degree not seen in other apes.
“Our data set gives us a unifying framework, says Pontzer.
“Rather than everything having to trade off against everything else, we now see that everything’s working towards providing a larger energy budget with the smallest costs and biggest safety margins.”
He adds, “When papers come out in human evolution, the title is often ‘ We’re right ’, and the subtitle is ‘ Everyone else is wrong ’.
Our subtitle is: ‘ Everyone made a lot of important observations and now we can make better sense of them .’
Ed Yong is a staff writer at The Atlantic , where he covers science.
Lucas Jackson / Reuters With Donald Trump its presumptive nominee after his win in the Indiana primary, the GOP will never be the same.
NEW YORK—Where were you the night Donald Trump killed the Republican Party as we knew it?
Trump was right where he belonged: in the gilt-draped skyscraper with his name on it, Trump Tower in Manhattan, basking in the glory of his final, definitive victory.
“I have to tell you, I’ve competed all my life,” Trump said, his golden face somber, his gravity-defying pouf of hair seeming to hover above his brow.
“All my life I’ve been in different competitions—in sports, or in business, or now, for 10 months, in politics.
I have met some of the most incredible competitors that I’ve ever competed against right here in the Republican Party.”
The combined might of the Republican Party’s best and brightest—16 of them at the outset—proved, in the end, helpless against Trump’s unorthodox, muscular appeal to the party’s voting base.
With his sweeping, 16-point victory in Tuesday’s Indiana primary, and the surrender of his major remaining rival, Ted Cruz, Trump was pronounced the presumptive nominee by the chair of the Republican National Committee.
Continue Reading Siu Chiu / Reuters It’s a paradox: Shouldn’t the most accomplished be well equipped to make choices that maximize life satisfaction?
There are three things, once one’s basic needs are satisfied, that academic literature points to as the ingredients for happiness: having meaningful social relationships, being good at whatever it is one spends one’s days doing, and having the freedom to make life decisions independently.
That second finding is the puzzle that Raj Raghunathan, a professor of marketing at The University of Texas at Austin’s McCombs School of Business, tries to make sense of in his recent book, If You’re So Smart, Why Aren’t You Happy?
Raghunathan’s writing does fall under the category of self-help (with all of the pep talks and progress worksheets that that entails), but his commitment to scientific research serves as ballast for the genre’s more glib tendencies.
Continue Reading Paul Sancya / AP Given her general election opponent, she has a historic opportunity to unite a grand, cross-party coalition.
Now the Democrats’ likely nominee faces a dilemma of her own: Run as a centrist and try to pile up a huge majority—at risk of enraging Sanders voters?
Or continue the left turn she’s executed through these primaries, preserve Democratic party unity—at the risk of pushing Trump-averse Republicans back to The Donald as the lesser evil?
The imminent Trump nomination threatens to rip the Republican party into three parts.
Trump repels both the most conservative Republicans and the most moderate: both socially conservative regular church attenders and pro-Kasich affluent suburbanites, especially women.
The most conservative Republicans won’t ever vote for Hillary Clinton of course.
But they might be induced to stay home—if Clinton does not scare them into rallying to Trump.
The most moderate Republicans might well cast a cross party line vote—if Clinton can convince them that she’s the more responsible steward and manager.
Continue Reading Rodrigo Abd / AP What jargon says about armies, and the societies they serve
We need a thistle.” Listening to the Israeli military frequencies when I was an infantryman nearly two decades ago, it was (and still is) possible to hear sentences like these, the bewildering cousins of sentences familiar to anyone following America’s present-day wars.
“Vegas is in a TIC,” in Afghanistan in Sebastian Junger’s book War .
Anyone seeking to understand the world needs to understand soldiers, but the language of soldiers tends to be bizarre and opaque, an apt symbol for the impossibility of communicating their experiences to people safe at home.
The language isn’t nonsense—it means something to the soldiers, of course, but it also has something to say about the army and society to which they belong, and about the shared experience of military service anywhere.
The soldiers’ vernacular must provide words for things that civilians don’t need to describe, like grades of officers and kinds of weapons.
Continue Reading Hugh Kretschmer Nearly half of Americans would have trouble finding $400 to pay for an emergency.
S ince 2013, the Federal Reserve Board has conducted a survey to “monitor the financial and economic status of American consumers.” Most of the data in the latest survey, frankly, are less than earth-shattering: 49 percent of part-time workers would prefer to work more hours at their current wage; 29 percent of Americans expect to earn a higher income in the coming year; 43 percent of homeowners who have owned their home for at least a year believe its value has increased.
The Fed asked respondents how they would pay for a $400 emergency.
The answer: 47 percent of respondents said that either they would cover the expense by borrowing or selling something, or they would not be able to come up with the $400 at all.
Continue Reading Paramount By handcuffing a new series to its online-only service, the network is trying to catch the next wave of the television industry.
What’s the easiest way to tell that we’re in the midst of a television programming revolution?
Just look at what the networks, the dinosaurs of the industry, are doing to keep up.
On Tuesday, CBS detailed its plans for its prospective Netflix competitor “CBS All Access,” a monthly subscription-based online service that will use a new Star Trek show to try and reel in viewers.
But where Netflix’s strategy is to become a vast repository of original content, dumping whole seasons of original shows at a time for people to sample at their leisure, CBS is trying to hold onto the weekly model that has defined broadcast strategy for decades.
That compromise is currently untested, but it could be the future of the medium.
Continue Reading David McNew / Quanta A professor of cognitive science argues that the world is nothing like the one we experience through our senses.
As we go about our daily lives, we tend to assume that our perceptions—sights, sounds, textures, tastes—are an accurate portrayal of the real world.
Sure, when we stop and think about it—or when we find ourselves fooled by a perceptual illusion—we realize with a jolt that what we perceive is never the world directly, but rather our brain’s best guess at what that world is like, a kind of internal simulation of an external reality.
The true reality might be forever beyond our reach, but surely our senses give us at least an inkling of what it’s really like.
Continue Reading Eduardo Munoz / Reuters The odds of defeating the billionaire depend in part on whether Americans who oppose him do what’s effective—or what feels emotionally satisfying.
Tens of millions of Americans want to deny Donald Trump the presidency.
Many who oppose the billionaire will be tempted to echo Bret Stephens: “If by now you don’t find Donald Trump appalling,” the Wall Street Journal columnist told the Republican frontrunner’s supporters, “you’re appalling.”
Some will be tempted to respond like anti-Trump protesters in Costa Mesa, California.
Violent elements in that crowd threw rocks at a passing pickup truck, smashed the window of a police cruiser, and bloodied at least one Trump supporter.
Continue Reading Lefteris Pitarakis / AP A new study shows that we burn many more daily calories than other apes.
Evolution works on a strict energy budget.
You can’t have flapping wings and a huge body and venom and fast legs and a big brain.
That’s why, for example, animals that reproduce faster tend to die earlier.
They divert energy towards making new bodies, and away from maintaining their own.
Compared to other apes, we reproduce more often (or, at least, those of us in traditional societies do) and our babies are bigger when they’re born and we live longer.
And, as if to show off, our brains are much larger, and these huge organs sap some 20 percent of our total energy.
Continue Reading Stefan Wermuth / Reuters Sadiq Khan, the Labour Party candidate, is poised to make history.
Britain is holding local elections this week on what some have dubbed “Super Thursday,” but only one contest is worthy of the moniker: the race to succeed Boris Johnson as London’s mayor.
Mayoral elections rarely draw international attention.
London holds tremendous sway within Britain itself, both as an economic powerhouse and a population center.
Roughly one in 10 members of Parliament come from the city’s constituencies—more than hail from Scotland, Wales, or Northern Ireland.
British governance tends to favor councils of local officials and collective government by cabinets of ministers.
London’s mayor, by comparison, is elected by millions of voters from the city and its surrounding suburbs.
Because most of Britain does not directly vote for the ministers in Parliament, let alone the House of Lords or the queen, the mayor can claim a stronger democratic mandate than perhaps any British politician other than the prime minister (who herself is not directly elected to that post, but assumes it as leader of the largest party in Parliament).
Continue Reading A suggestion for compulsive checkers
Watch Video A rock monster tries to save a village from destruction.
Watch Video From a moral standpoint, it makes the world worse.