DHFL Pramerica Life FY16 profit rises 27% to Rs 51 cr
Museum in 37-storey tower set to be thrown open soon
1 out of every 10 students 'held back' in Class 9
Indrani's driver wants to turn approver, seeks pardon
Activist Trupti Desai enters Haji Ali, stops short of going into inner sanctum
Mumbai devpt norms usurp rights of corporators: Sena
Fewer suicides in dry zone’s four districts
Pollard, Buttler guide Mumbai Indians to six wicket win against Royal Challengers
Mumbai police to digitise work: Padsalgikar
Making it Big: Book Launch Raman Raghav 2.0: Trailer Celebs attend store launch JDIFT: Fashion Show Kal Penn’s reception AC/DC’s concert
Making it Big: Book Launch Raman Raghav 2.0: Trailer Celebs attend store launch JDIFT: Fashion Show Kal Penn’s reception AC/DC’s concert
Insects attack leaves blemishes on Taj Mahal Queen on tape: Chinese officials 'very rude' Lalu's son Tejaswi's shocking 'jungle raj' defence Sheena case: Trouble for Indrani and Peter as ex-driver agrees to become approver Uttarakhand crisis is over as Harish Rawat wins floor test Shocking!
Mumbai hospital OPD turns into dance floor
Hours after Trupti Desai entered Mumbai's Haji Ali Dargah and offered prayers, AIMIM leader Haji Rafat Hussain on Thursday said the Bhumata Brigade chief will not be able to enter the inner sanctum of the dargah in her lifetime.
ANI | May 12, 2016, 11.15 AM ISTMumbai, May 12 (ANI): Hours after Trupti Desai entered Mumbai's Haji Ali Dargah and offered prayers, AIMIM leader Haji Rafat Hussain on Thursday said the Bhumata Brigade chief will not be able to enter the inner sanctum of the dargah in her lifetime.
The AIMIM leader said Desai should now enter a Parsi temple so as to confirm that she is actually fighting for women's rights and not for mere publicity.
"We are happy that Trupti Desai offered prayers at the Haji Ali Dargah.
But the way she had on April 28 threatened the entire Muslim community that she would forcefully enter the dargah was not right," Hussain told ANI.
"She entered today with the police.
I think she should not have done that and should have entered alone.
We would have been much happy if she would have entered just like any other common person," he added.
When asked Desai had earlier said that she would now enter the inner sanctum of the dargah, the AIMIM leader said it was just a publicity stunt.
"She would not be able to enter the majar-e-sharif throughout her life.
She was allowed to go where women are allowed to enter.
I would also like her to now try and enter a Parsi temple, where only parsis are allowed to go, as that would confirm the people that she is actually fighting for women's rights and not for publicity," he said.
The Bhumata Brigade chief, who has been agitating for women's rights to enter places of worship which are otherwise traditionally considered out of bounds for them, today entered the Haji Ali dargah.
"Today I entered Haji Ali Dargah.
I went till the point where women were allowed to go and offered prayers.
The police were helpful this time.
This is a fight for gender equality," Desai said after offering prayers.
"At Haji Ali Dargah, I prayed that women must be allowed to enter inner sanctum like they did before 2011.
We saw where we are allowed till and where men go till inside Dargah," she added.
The Bhumata Brigade chief also said that they would stage a protest if the trustees do not allow women to enter the shrine in the next 15 days.
Thursday's event is the latest in Desai's movement after last month she was denied entry to enter the shrine.
Desai, who had earlier announced that she would enter the dargah on April 28, launched the campaign 'Haji Ali For All' in April to allow women to the tomb of Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari and offer 'chadar' there.
The Haji Ali Dargah does not allow women to enter the inner chamber.
Only men are allowed to go inside the Haji Ali Mazar and offer their prayers.
This ban came into force in 2011.
(ANI)
(This story has not been edited by timesofindia.com and is auto–generated from a syndicated feed we subscribe to.)
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia