A true testament to the transformative powers of style, Captain America is the patriotic alter ego of a World War II–era Brooklynite transformed by a team of army scientists into a Nazi-fighting Samaritan.
He turns to inventor Howard Stark to outfit him in a scientifically advanced suit in a star-spangled palette (is that performance-tech heritage denim we see?)
with G.I.
Joe–inspired accessories, like a leather harness belt and M1 helmet mask.
By Zade Rosenthal/© Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures/from Everett Collection.
By secretly sporting his heroic attire beneath his natty journalist wardrobe, Superman nails the desk-to-redemption look.
His royal-blue body-con suit hugs his admirable physique, while his cape and boots provide bold red accents.
The iconic “S” emblazoned across his chest arguably started the graphic T-shirt trend.
© Warner Bros./from Everett Collection.
The Russian turncoat siren—she was a spy for her motherland before joining the U.S. spy agency SHIELD—stuns in a venomously skintight suit in jet black.
For the Black Widow, form follows function: microscopic suction cups on her extremities let her scale walls with the prowess of her namesake.
© Walt Disney Studios/from Everett Collection.
Spider-Man dons the streamlined, web-print Spidey Suit in an electric blue and red to glide through the world by his web by hands and feet—nothing less than the latest smart fabrics for the king of geek chic.
While the science-fiction suit makes Spider-Man singularly agile, it’s his Spidey Sense that really helps him save the day, proving you’ve got to have brains to complement the braun.
By Jaimie Trueblood/© Columbia Pictures/from Everett Collection.
Batman serves in his capacity as unofficial guardian of Gotham City in the infamous Batsuit, an all-black bodysuit with bat-inspired details like a webbed, wing-like cape, a mask with prick ears—all paid for with the billionaire crime-fighter’s trusty trust fund.
If only more one-percenters were such do-gooders!
© Warner Bros./from Everett Collection.
This feline fatale elevated cat-burgling to a super-sexy art in her snug black cat suit and kitty ears.
There’s more than a dollop of the sadomasochistic in her mask, whip, and thigh-high boots, which is perhaps what has long kept rich boy Batman clawing for more.
By Ron Phillips/ Warner Bros./from Everett Collection.
Tangerine-haired teen Kim Possible sends up the tropes of superhero bravura while balancing a secret-agent regimen with the travails of high school.
Her signature combination of harem-cargo fatigues with a black cropped turtleneck suggest a Michael Kors spin on Indiana Jones.
© Disney Channel/from Everett Collection.
That come-hither charisma isn’t a certain je ne sais quoi —it’s a psionic energy field that renders this heroine invisible.
In a striking, deep blue body suit with exotic-leather accents whose fit leaves nothing to the imagination, the Invisible Woman has presence.
© 20th Century Fox/from Everett Collection.
The man in the red iron suit wields his sartorial engineering skills to address the social and political ills of the world—picture the TED Talk!
Iron Man’s gold and red suit of armor, with its glowing orb of an arc reactor, is not simply his support system, but his weapon.
The hero has designed a slew of suits for activities from space travel to deep-sea diving, solidifying him as science-fiction’s answer to Savile Row.
© Paramount Pictures/from Everett Collection.
Blossom is the brainiest mercenary in the trio of sweetie-pie crime-fighting sisters we know as the Powerpuff Girls—and, we might add, she looks mighty good doing it.
With her strawberry-blond hair, big red bow, and mod bubblegum dress, she may not look mean, but a karate-chopping strategist lingers just behind those pink saucer eyes.
© Warner Bros./from Everett Collection.