May 10, 2016
10:49am PT by
Bryn Elise Sandberg
Michelle Fairley Karwai Tang/Getty Images
Michelle Fairley, best known for her portrayal of Catelyn Stark in the HBO drama, will star in the miniseries.
Former Game of Thrones star Michelle Fairley is joining Starz' eight-episode miniseries The White Princess , the follow-up to last year's The White Queen .
She'll play the role of Margaret Beaufort in the series adapted from Philippa Gregory’s best-selling novel of the same name.
Also joining the cast is up-and-coming actress Jodie Comer, who will portray Princess Elizabeth of York.
The White Princess tells the story of England’s War of the Roses from the perspective of the women and will begin shooting on location in Bristol, later this year.Margaret Beaufort, Henry Tudor’s mother and the mastermind behind his ascent to the throne, knows that getting the throne and keeping it safe for the Tudor line are two different things, especially as York rivals continue to plot against them with increasing success.
Princess Elizabeth of York (Lizzie) is forced into marriage to unite the Houses of York and Tudor, realizing that she has no choice but to do her duty for England and marry the new King, Henry VII.
The union brings Lizzie in direct conflict with Henry’s strong-willed mother.
As Margaret’s influence over her son begins to wane and Lizzie’s star rises, Margaret beings to unravel as the sins of the past and present weigh heavily on her conscience and her relations with Henry are at risk of imploding.
Fairley is best known for her portrayal of Catelyn Stark in the first three seasons of HBO’s hit fantasy drama.
She can currently be seen in SundanceTV’s Irish historical miniseries Rebellion and will also be appearing in the upcoming second season of Pivot’s first original scripted series, Fortitude .
Comer, originally from Liverpool, broke out in E4’s dramedy My Mad Fat Diary.
Fairley is represented by Peter Brooks at Creative Artists Management and Chris Schmidt at Paradigm.
Comer is represented by Independent Talent Group in the UK and ICM Partners in the U.S.