Did the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them House Names Just Get Leaked?
!
Presented By &
Are you ready to figure out which house you belong to?
As Harry Potter fans anxiously await the release of J.K. Rowling 's next adaptation, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, we learn that some potentially new (and obvs important) information about the film has been leaked—like the names of the different houses!
Any and all Potterheads already know that part of their loyalty to the series is their connection to either Gryffindor, Slytherin, Ravenclaw, or Hufflepuff, so it's no shocker that fans are patiently waiting to find out which house they belong to when it comes to Ilvermorny (or "America's Hogwarts").
Well, now you can get a head start.
According to reports , a man by the name of Federico Ian Cervantez accidentally discovered the names of the four houses while digging through the javascript he found for a new quiz being put together on the official Harry Potter website.
Now, that's some modern age wizardry if we say so ourselves.
The quiz reportedly begins by asking, "Where do you belong?
Horned Serpent, Wampus, Thunderbird, or Pukwudgie..." BOOM.
Don't worry, there's more.
Apparently elsewhere in the quiz, the Horned Serpent is described as "dragon-like serpents with horns and long teeth.
They are often associated with or said to control the weather, particularly rain, lightning, and thunder.
Magical abilities ascribed to them include shape-shifting, invisibility, and hypnotic powers."
Meanwhile, the Wampus is a "cat-like" creature described as "some kind of fearsome variation of a cougar," while the Thunderbird, one of the more prestigious of options, is a "legendary creature" which is "often described as a very large bird, capable of generating storms and thunder as it flies."
Last, but not least, the Pukwudgie is said to be "two-to-three feet tall and human-shaped, but with a larger nose, ears, and fingers and smooth, grey skin that sometimes glows.
Its magical abilities include disappearing and reappearing, partial or complete transformation into a porcupine or cougar, and creating fire."
Fantastic Beasts takes place 70 years before Harry Potter came to be.
It tells the story of eccentric magizoologist Newt Scamander (Oscar winner Eddie Redmayne ), who comes to New York with his trusty weathered case that can obviously hold way more than it appears to be able to contain, just like any other tote we've come to know and love in the magical world of Hogwarts.
Within this case there are expansive habitats for a collection of rare and endangered magical creatures from Newt's travels around globe.
Newt soon discovers the American wizarding community is fearfully hiding from Muggles No-Maj and the threat of public exposure is an even graver concern than in the UK.
Fantastic Beasts is the story of what happens when Newt travels to wiz-phobic America and a variety of his creatures, some quite dangerous escape from his elusive case.
This will be the first screenplay penned by J.K. Rowling .
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them hits theaters November 18.