It's 'play' time for Sushant Singh Rajput
Richa Chadha: Randeep hooda’s a bit moody, but fun to work
EXCLUSIVE: Fourth teaser of 'Raman Raghav 2.0' will send chills down your spine
Has Twinkle Khanna's joke on Sri Sri Ravishankar landed Akshay Kumar's 'Housefull 3' in trouble?
Jackie Chan’s gift for Amyra Dastur
Here’s why Farah said no to Whatsapp…
Eight years of 'Bhoothnath' makes Amitabh Bachchan happy
This new poster of ‘Befikre’ is hotness personified!
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party Pics: Canada Wildfire Celebs at airport
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
He might be the man of the moment but Fawad Khan is a big of his 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' co-star Fawad Khan.
"I am a big fan of his work.
I have enjoyed most of his performances," he told a daily.
TNN | May 9, 2016, 04.22 PM ISTHe might be the man of the moment but Fawad Khan is a big of his 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' co-star Fawad Khan.
"I am a big fan of his work.
I have enjoyed most of his performances," he told a daily.
Incidentally this is the first time they are working together.
The Pakistani hottie added, "I shot with Ranbir for the first time for this film, but that was hardly for three or four days in Austria.
Before that, I had briefly met him in London, UK, when he was shooting for the same film.
He is a chilled out and relaxed guy.
But our interactions have been limited in number.
I am looking forward to a shooting schedule that allows us to spend more time together."
Ae Dil Hai Mushkil: Fawad Khan will return to Mumbai to shoot final schedule Bollywood can't seem to get enough of dreamboat Fawad Khan.
Earlier, Fawad also worked with Ranbir's father Rishi Kapoor in 'Kapoor & Sons' and together they had a ball of a time.
His friendship with Kapoors will only help him warm up better to the industry.
Ain't that sweet?Dance is not my forte: Fawad Khan
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia