As a set for Star Wars Episode VIII appears, fans say it is "absolutely fantastic" that filming is taking place in the area.
A top secret Star Wars set being built at Ireland's most northerly point appears to be a replica of the famous Millennium Falcon spaceship.
The large structure – at least 15m across and 3m high – has appeared over the last few days at Malin Head.
It is balanced precariously on cliffs a mile from a headland called Bamba's Crown, where photographers have captured dramatic images of the Northern Lights.
It is being shielded by nets, with rescue boats deployed offshore.
The set is balanced on a headland called Bamba's Crown
There is only one road leading to the location and fans are being discouraged from getting too close by security guards.
Access to the beauty spot has been cut off for the next three days.
Locals are being kept away from the remote location
Local fan John Joe McGettigan, from Carrigart, turned up in full Stormtrooper regalia.
"It's absolutely fantastic ... to have Star Wars in Donegal, it's not a galaxy far, far away at all," he said.
"Everybody has their own way of going mad - this is ours."
Local fan John Joe McGettigan turned up in full Stormtrooper regalia
Another local, Allie Farren, said it would bring valuable publicity.
"It will help put Malin Head once again on the map," he said.
"This will be bigger than the likes of Game Of Thrones like we've seen in the north attracting loads of tourists.
“Hopefully this will really benefit the area.
"Everybody in this location is tied into the secrecy.
“It's been a great talking point.
"Star Wars is one of the biggest movies of all time and for them to be in Malin Head it's top class."
Production crews are preparing to begin filming
Hugh Farren, owner of Farren's pub in Malin Head, where film crews are getting food and refreshments, fixed a mural of Yoda to the gable wall of his bar.
"It's a great occasion to shout from the rooftops," he said.
"We have got quite a lot of people coming in who have not been here for years … just coming to see and take in the beautiful scenery we have here and loving the area."
Filming for Episode VIII will also take place at the opposite end of Ireland.
Jedi Temple sets have been constructed on a mountain headland - Ceann Sibeal in Co Kerry.
Filming is expected to take place there later this month.