Jodie Foster , a screen icon for the past 50 years, has finally received her star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
"I grew up blocks from Hollywood Boulevard and would cross it every single day of my life," she said during her acceptance speech in Hollywood on Wednesday.
"And you do that thing where you're like, 'Will I ever be on the Walk of Fame someday?'
"
After the ceremony, Foster opened up to PEOPLE about finally having that question answered.
"It feels nostalgic and kind of emotional.
It just reminds me of conversations that I had with my mom, 10 blocks from here about Hollywood Boulevard and what it represented," she said.
"You know she'd drive down the street and talk about the history of it.
Talk about Clark Gable and all the premieres that happened at Mann's Chinese – Grauman's Chinese at the time.
It's a great bit of nostalgia and I feel honored to be a part of it."
After winning two Oscars and amassing a catalogue of critically acclaimed performances, Foster has had previous opportunities to have her name inscribed on the walkway.
She explained in her speech, "I made this conscious decision that I didn't want to have a star on Hollywood Boulevard unless it was in a conjunction with a movie I was directing.
I don't know why that was important to me; it seems silly, but that's why I waited all these years."
Foster also told PEOPLE, "When I was a kid I didn't think I would be able to be a director because I never saw any woman directors."
Asked how it feels to be a role model for female directors, Foster added, "I don't know if I'm a role model ...
But I just want to make movies, you know that's all I've ever wanted to do."
Kristen Stewart , who costarred with Foster in Panic Room when she was 10, made a speech at the ceremony honoring the Money Monster director.
"She's always encompassed what I thought was sort of the prime example of where you want to be and she's been there for me," Stewart said.
"She's a baller on every level.
It's out of control," the actress continued.
"She did everything young.
She kicked Yale's ass.
She won Oscars.
She became a filmmaker herself.
She created a family and still is just normal and cool and kind."
Foster's latest directorial project, Money Monster , opens May 13.
Kristen Stewart (L) and Jodie Foster
@write_miller 05/04/2016 AT 09:05 PM EDT