Media captionPrince Harry talks to an athlete ahead of the Invictus Games Prince Harry has said the Invictus Games for injured servicemen and women are a showcase for the "very best of the human spirit".
The prince, who backs the games, was writing in the official programme of the opening ceremony in the city of Orlando in Florida.
This is the second time the games have been run, after London in 2014.
During the five-day tournament more than 500 athletes from 14 countries will compete in a range of sports.
They include athletics, cycling, tennis and basketball.
Thousands of people attended the opening ceremony, among them the US first lady Michelle Obama, the Hollywood star Morgan Freeman, the British singer James Blunt and the soprano Laura Wright.
Image copyright@WeAreInvictusImage caption
A military band played the American national anthem to start the show
Image copyrightReutersImage caption
Prince Harry (right) appeared at a symposium alongside former US President George W Bush on Sunday to discuss the impact of invisible wounds
Image copyrightMODImage caption
The games feature a variety of track and field events
Image copyrightReutersImage caption
Indoor sports are also part of the programme
Image copyrightMODImage caption
The UK has high hopes for the weightlifting tournament
The five-day tournament will see more than 500 athletes compete in a Paralympic-style event that will feature a range of indoor and outdoor sports.
Prince Harry is patron of the Invictus Games Foundation, which oversees the delivery of the event and its legacy.
He wrote in the programme: "The next four days will be a fantastic showcase of competition, camaraderie and the very best of the human spirit."
Prince Harry said ahead of the opening that he hoped the Games would "smash the stigma" surrounding military mental health issues in the same way the London event had helped people come to terms with physical wounds.
"I've spoken to everybody who has severe Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder to minor depression, anxiety - whatever it might be," he said.
"Everybody says the same thing, if you can deal with it soon enough and have the ability and the platform to speak about it openly, then you can fix these problems.
"And if you can't fix it, you can at least find coping mechanisms - that's what it's all about, there's no reason people should be hiding in shame after they've served their country."
In an interview with the BBC the prince described the Games as a popular cause to benefit "people who had put their lives on the line".
From the section World