Barbara Corcoran is standing by her controversial views on being a businesswoman in a "man's world."
On Tuesday, the Shark Tank star tweeted: "I find running a #business in a man's world to be a huge advantage.
I wear bright colors, yank up my skirt + get attention.
#WomenInBusiness."
Corcoran later deleted the message after being accused of sexism , but was quick to defend the tweet on Thursday's Good Morning America .
"I totally believe what I said and I'm, frankly, surprised by getting any reaction to it," she said.
"I think it's so obvious that if you're a woman or a man -- it has nothing to do with what sex you are -- you really have to plant whatever you got."
The 67-year-old entrepreneur said that she uses her "great legs" to get attention.
"I make sure I wear my skirts really high.
I yank up my skirt at the midriff, and I walk into a room and everybody notices me," she admitted.
"I think it's a great gimmick, actually, if you are smart enough to get attention.
I don't think that's sexual in any way, but that's a horse race."
Corcoran -- who is the author of If You Don't Have Big Breasts, Put Ribbons On Your Pigtails and Other Lessons I've Learned From My Mom -- added that men have similar "gimmicks" to get ahead.
"What do men do?
They smoke cigars together.
They get flashy by pulling in with a Ferrari.
They're wearing the Rolodex watch.
They're playing golf with their bosses," she touted.
"Women don't do those things."
While Corcoran is adamant that there's nothing wrong with using your physical appearance to get noticed at the workplace, she does say that "if you're not using your brain, you're not going to succeed in business."
"I think it's a wrong message to tell the young woman that they should look like the guys.
I just don't think it works in business," she insisted.
"If you're beautiful, let yourself be beautiful.
I just feel like you should use whatever you got to your own advantage.
I see it as the only way to get ahead in business."
Photo: Getty Images