ET confirmed on Wednesday that Janet Jackson is expecting her first child at 49, and now, we're taking a look at other celebrity moms who got a visit from the stork after their 40th birthdays.
Jackson's baby news comes just two weeks shy of the singer's 50th birthday, but she's not the only entertainer to give birth later in life.
The GRAMMY winner is in good company with these 17 women who have welcomed children after the big 4-0.
Photo: Getty Images
John Travolta's wife gave birth at 48 to son Benjamin in 2010 after the couple's 16-year-old son Jett died the year before following a seizure.
In a 2011 interview, the actress told Health magazine that it was "amazing" to have a child at that stage in her life.
"When I found out I was pregnant, I was floored," she said.
"I'd snuck out of bed and then came back and woke Johnny up in bed.
We both started crying.
Photo: Getty Images
The National Lampoon's Vacation star had twins, Anton and Olivia, at 49 with then-65-year-old-boyfriend Al Pacino in 2001.
Her Vacation co-star and friend Chevy Chase spoke to People about D'Angelo's pregnancy experience in 2001, admitting, "Because she's not a young mother, she was a little nervous."
Photo: Getty Images
In 2002, the Oscar winner gave birth to daughter, Alizeh, at 46 and had twin boys, Kian and Kaiis, two years later at 48.
"It's been really wonderful, but it was overwhelming," she told Good Housekeeping in 2006 about having three children so close together.
Photo: Getty Images
The Oscar winner welcomed sons Jack and Miles with then-partner Tim Robbins at 42 and 45, respectively, after already being mom to daughter Eva Amurri from a previous relationship.
"It was just such a freak [thing] that I got pregnant that I thought, ‘I can't ignore this.’ And so I jumped," she told Time Out New York in 2014.
"I had to pay attention when it happened, because nobody could understand how it had happened."
Photo: Getty Images
The tough-talking CNN anchorwoman had twins, Lucy and John, at 48 with her investment banker husband, David Lynch.
"I always said I wanted a family," she told People in 2007.
"I grew up in happy, loving family [and] I wanted it too.
But until now, I just thought it wasn't meant to be for me.
And as part of God's mysterious plan, I'm given this wonderful blessing late in life -- and I could not be happier."
Photo: Getty Images
Forty-one was the magic number for the Oscar winner.
That's the age that she had her first child, Nahla, with then-beau, Gabriel Aubry, in 2008.
Berry was 47 when she had her second child, Maceo, with estranged husband Olivier Martinez.
In 2014, she got candid with Ellen DeGeneres about breastfeeding.
"There's a difference between boys and girls.
I breastfed Nahla and I'm nursing my baby," she explained.
"When I would put Nahla on the boob she would go [light sucking] -- a nice little girly suck.
With him it's like, [chomping suck].
He's like, sucking the life out of me!
So I see the difference between boys and girls."
Photo: Getty Images
The Voice coach was 44 years old when she welcomed Apollo Bowie Flynn to her growing brood of boys with then-husband Gavin Rossdale in 2014.
She was already mom to Kingston and Zuma, who she had in her 30s.
Stefani referred to Apollo's birth as a surprise "miracle" in 2015 interview with InStyle .
She revealed that the experience put her in "a whole new spiritual place."
"I was trying at the time to do more music with No Doubt.
Photo: Getty Images
The famed fashion designer was 42 when she announced she was expecting her second child with husband Rodger Berman.
"Rodger, [son] Skyler and I hope that everyone had an amazing summer!"
she wrote on her blog in 2013.
"Before we head into the chaos of fashion season, we wanted to take a moment to OFFICIALLY confirm that we are expecting another child," she wrote.
"We are beyond excited for Skyler to have a sibling and for us to fall in love all over again.
We feel incredibly blessed.
Thank you all for your constant love and support of our family."
Photo: Getty Images
The two-time Golden Globe winner had already turned 41 by the time she had her second child, Penelope, in 2011.
She first announced the baby news to Oprah Winfrey.
"My husband [Jeff Richmond] and I really decided that we felt rather than risk having 30 Rock end in several years and feeling like part of our family is missing that we were going to prioritize our family," she said at the time.
Photo: Getty Images
The Oscar-nominated actress and husband, Francois-Henri Pinault, became parents to daughter, Valentina, when Hayek was 40, which, according to her, was for the better.
"I'm a more fulfilled human being now, and I probably wouldn't have been 10 years ago," Hayek told WebMD magazine.
"She gets a better mother for being born now."
Photo: Getty Images
The Oscar winning actress had a daughter, Ireland, with then-husband, Alec Baldwin, when she was 41.
Due to the couple's divorce in 2002, Basinger took a non-traditional approach to raising her daughter, according to an interview she had with The EDIT earlier this month.
"I brought up Ireland in a very unconventional way," she explained.
"I just wanted her to be free.
If she wanted to have her friends over and write over the walls with pen, that was fine.
I wanted her childhood to be full of love and light and animals and friends."
Photo: Getty Images
The former child star had daughter Grier in 2006, when she was 41.
Grier marked baby No.
2 for Shields and husband Chris Henchy, who were already parents to daughter, Rowan.
In her book, Down Came the Rain: My Journey Through Postpartum Depression, Shields chronicled her battle with feelings of hopelessness after the birth of Rowan in 2003.
"I really didn't want to live anymore," she said.
According to The Associated Press, a doctor attributed the actress’ condition to low levels of estrogen and progesterone and prescribed Paxil.
Photo: Getty Images
The GRAMMY winner gave birth to twin boys, Eddy and Nelson, at 42 years old in 2010 after multiple failed IVF attempts that she told Hello!
The singer’s husband and father of her children, Rene Angelil, died on January 14, 2016, after a long battle with cancer.
In one of the most poignant moments of his funeral service, Angelil and Dion's eldest son, Rene-Charles, took the pulpit to honor his late father.
"Dad, you are a tough act to follow, but with your help, everything is going to be fine," Rene-Charles said.
"Dad, I promise you we are all going to live up to your standards."
Photo: Getty Images
The Mad About You star was 40 when her daughter, Makena Lei, was born.
She discussed the difficulties that she and beau Matthew Carnahan experienced on the road to pregnancy with Ladies' Home Journal in 2008.
"It turned out to be tougher to get pregnant than I thought it would be," she said.
"I tried for a long time, and it just didn't happen, to the point where getting pregnant became the greatest wish - and the greatest challenge - of my life.
My fate wasn't to jump into the backseat of a car and have a baby.
My boyfriend and I were on our last big try, and if the baby hadn't come, we would have adopted.
Photo: Getty Images
The three-time Oscar winner had her fourth child, Louisa, at 41.
"Motherhood, marriage, it's a balancing act," she told Good Housekeeping in 2008, "especially when you have a job that you consider rewarding.
Robert Redford taught me that when they were babies 'they are not your props.'
I really admired the way he protected his family.
Photo: Getty Images
The Oscar winner and her husband, Keith Urban, welcomed daughter, Sunday Rose, in 2008 when Kidman was 40 and daughter Faith in 2010 when she was 43.
Despite advancing in years, Kidman told Elle in 2014 that she could give birth again.
"Every month, I'm like, 'I hope I'm pregnant!'"
Photo: Getty Images
The GRAMMY winner gave birth to twins Moroccan and Monroe at 42 in 2011.
Unlike Kidman, Carey plans on Roe and Roc being her only kids.
"Those are my two babies," she explained to The Lowdown 's Diana Madison earlier this year.
"I think they would be so jealous because they get upset when I pet the dog."
Photo: Getty Images