Selena Gomez isn't exactly in the best mindset to be in a relationship.
In a new interview with Marie Claire for their June 2016 issue, the 23-year-old singer admits that while she's currently having fun dating , she definitely has some trust issues.
"I've been dating.
I've been having the best time," Gomez candidly tells the magazine, also admitting she has a weakness for "bad boys."
"But I don't trust anybody, so dating can only be fun if I know I'm going to have fun."
Photo: Marie Claire
Clearly, Gomez's highly publicized relationship with pop star Justin Bieber has affected her -- especially when it comes to how she does press.
"I would try to promote something that I loved, and the entire interview would be about my personal life," she laments.
"I would leave a room feeling defeated, feeling embarrassed, but I would always make sure to put that smile on my face because I wasn't going to let them get to me."
The "Hands to Myself" singer is now striving to turn everyone's focus to her work rather than her love life.
"I wanted to do things that I knew were going to be me," she says about her current tour for her album, Revival .
"I don't want people to look at me as someone who is just this celebrity person."
Now, more than ever, the former Disney star is in control of her career.
"Authenticity is my life," she stresses.
"[My agents and managers] make great choices, but I make the decisions."
Photo: Marie Claire
Still, Gomez can't avoid the Bieber talk when it comes to her new music -- especially when the lyrics hint at a tortured relationship.
On Friday, she debuted her new song, "Feel Me," during the first stop of her Revival Tour in Las Vegas, and fans couldn't help but wonder if she's calling out the 22-year-old "Sorry" singer ... as the exes have been known to do in the past .
"No one loves you like I love you / I never cheated, never lied," Gomez sings.
"I never put no one above you / I gave you space and time / And now you're telling me you miss me / And I'm still on your mind / We were one in a million / Our love is hard to find."
And obviously, fans still can't get enough of Jelena.
Last week, Bieber's steamy throwback pic with Gomez that he posted in March -- even though the two broke up in 2014 -- officially became the most liked photo on Instagram, dethroning Kendall Jenner.
"Feels," Bieber captioned the pic of the exes smooching.
Playing Selena Gomez Admits She's Dating But Doesn't 'Trust Anybody,' Debuts Love Song -- Is It About Justin Bieber?