The star opened up about getting his eldest daughter into a graffiti battle and toys with fans' emotions with a fake pic of his new baby.
While Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes just welcomed their second child two weeks ago -- daughter Amada -- the Nice Guys star has already started training his 20-month-old daughter Esmeralda the importance of standing up for herself (and also getting revenge).
Gosling sat down with Ellen DeGeneres recently where he opened up about his favorite pastime with his eldest daughter, which is going to the park and writing their names on the ground in chalk.
Gosling told DeGeneres that his love of street art began years ago, explaining, "When I was a younger man I had a fantasy of getting into the graffiti world.
I was living downtown, and I heard that if you tag over someone else's that that's how you start a battle.
So I did this for a few months and no one ever bothered to battle with me because I was so bad at it."
However, it seems some troublemaker is trying to start a battle with his daughter, and Gosling couldn't be more excited to get into the fray.
"Some kid has been erasing her name and writing their name over it.
So now I'm in a proper tagging battle," Gosling said, trying to temper his excitement.
"And this kid has access to an unfair amount of chalk."
"I'm trying to explain to my little girl that this is [unacceptable.
]," he recounted.
"She doesn't care.
She's like, 'Well let's just chalk anywhere else,' and I'm like, 'No, no.
They're disrespecting your mother.
Because, she gave you this name and they're erasing it.'
So the only way to really get back at them is to erase their name.
And not disrespect their mother, but definitely put her on notice.
Because I think she's the chalk supplier."
The 35-year-old leading man admitted that it's easy to go overboard when getting involved in your kids' feuds.
"You've got to be careful when you're trying to teach your kid what a reasonable amount of vengeance is," Gosling explained.
Gosling sought DeGeneres’ advice, asking if he was going down the right road, but the talk show host couldn't really approve.
"I think she might not want to battle little kids," DeGeneres offered.
"I think it's important that we do," Gosling replied, undeterred.
"I feel strongly about it."
The actor, who has been famously reserved when it comes to talking about his children or sharing photos of them, also teased the audience with a "picture" of his newborn baby girl .
"I brought a picture [of Amada] if you want.
I don’t’ know if you’re interested," Gosling told DeGeneres as the audience erupted in cheers.
The photo came up on the screens behind them, revealing a Photoshopped picture of a baby with DeGeneres’ head.
Photo: Warner Bros.
"She's adorable,” DeGeneres jokingly gushed.
"She's so precious.
She looks just like you."
ET recently caught up with Gosling at the red carpet premiere of his action comedy where the handsome star couldn't help but beam while talking about his new bundle of joy.
Check out the video below to see more.
Photo: Warner Bros.