Dang, Miley!
So much on your mind.
That's not even all of it, either, read the whole post below.Miley Cyrus is feeling some dyer's remorse, but keeping everything in perspective.
The 23-year-old "Wrecking Ball" singer lamented her recent bleach blonde 'do in a very long, NSFW Instagram rant on Wednesday, where she said she "learned a valuable lesson in this meaningless process."
"Bleached my f**king natural healthy a$$ hair rebelling out of boredom while dealing with a consecutive amount of time off on the Woody project ( 2 months ago)," the Grammy-nominated artist wrote.
"Something inside told me I'd regret it."
"That hair color comes in a box (well maybe mine) therefore it's available to purchase and what grows from my scalp naturally is mine and and only mine," she continued.
"Not to mention I felt like a self obsessed psycho while real issues are out there in the world needing to be dealt with I was sitting in front of a mirror going thru strand by strand like my hair and what it looks like actually f**king matters!"
"Either this s**t needs to grow out at super speed or I'm about to go in for a f**kin hair cut realllllll quick," the singer added.
"I guess even writing this hunk of bull s**t means I am thinking about my hair which is equally as lame and self obsessed as all of the above because really this fucking mop will make no difference to that fact Donald Trump is running for president (successfully) and climate change is extremely real and scary."
"So please fellow humans next time you feel that tickle in your belly while making a decision listen to what it says and know the true you can never be replicated or replaced you are the one and only you," she concluded.
Meanwhile, Miley's beau Liam Hemsworth spoke to ET's Jennifer Peros regarding rumors about the couple's relationship.
"Everyone's happy," Liam confirmed, while explaining, "I just find it's easier to not talk about my personal life because usually I say the wrong thing, so it ends up just complicating things more."
Watch the video below.