C anadian filmmaker Barry Avrich, 52, always has had a passion for documentaries about difficult men.
He has profiled subjects including Rolling Stones promoter Michael Cohl, writer Dominick Dunne and famed Canadian lawyer Edward Greenspan and now is working on a film about the Bronfmans.
A particularly tough subject was Lew Wasserman, the legendary MCA chairman.
"He put his hand on my shoulder with his thumb in my neck," recalls Avrich, "and said, 'The film won't be made, whether I'm alive or dead.'
" But Avrich persisted, and three years after Wasserman's 2002 death, he premiered The Last Mogul to strong reviews.
Wasserman was his most difficult subject until Avrich tried to make a documentary about Harvey Weinstein, the colorful co-founder of Miramax and The Weinstein Co. As Avrich recalls in this excerpt from his forthcoming memoir, Moguls, Monsters and Madmen (ECW, May 10), Weinstein, 64, used both charm and an iron fist to sabotage the project — and when that didn't work, he secretly conspired with IFC Films, which bought distribution rights, to turn Unauthorized: The Harvey Weinstein Story into a semi-authorized story.
It could be their Faustian exercise of power, often leading to a tragic downfall.
When I was filming Lew Wasserman, whom I called "The Last Mogul," the name Harvey Weinstein kept surfacing.
The entertainment industry had grown so exponentially since Wasserman that no single person could hope ever again to hold it in such an iron grip.
Yet, Weinstein, operating from both America's East and West coasts, changed movies in ways that others scrambled to copy.
His films captured an unprecedented 303 Oscar nominations and more than 75 wins.
Alliance had the rights to distribute for Miramax Films, founded in 1979 by Harvey and Bob Weinstein, and this made me the marketing guy for Miramax in Canada.
Occasionally I would be on conference calls with Alliance, and Harvey would ask, "What are we doing in Canada?
Avrich next to a poster for his 2005 documentary about MCA chairman Lew Wasserman.
Once again, Dusty Cohl, co-founder of the Toronto Film Festival, was instrumental first in urging me to do a Weinstein documentary and then in getting me to Harvey through personal emails and phone calls.
I said repeatedly to Weinstein, "I'd like to make a film about you," and he replied each time with increasing force, "No, I don't want you to do it right now."
Eventually, he added, "I shouldn't tell you this, but Quentin Tarantino is already filming a documentary on my life."
I heard another filmmaker — certainly not Tarantino — had tried to document Weinstein, who was said to have pushed him right out of the business.
I knew he never meant it to happen, but by now enough buzz had been created by my attempts to get it started that The New York Times approached me.
After that, The New York Times did a major story: "Documentarian Attempts to Climb Mount Weinstein."
Michael Cohl [Dusty's cousin] called me as soon as the story hit.
In the early days, Michael and Harvey had known each other because both promoted concerts.
In 1989, you offered The Rolling Stones $40 million to walk away from Bill Graham.
After I started setting up key interviews, word again got back to Harvey, and I received another call from Cohl.
Michael passed on my message, and Harvey agreed.
I flew down to Los Angeles on the weekend of the 2011 Oscars.
Even though I'd brought my friend Todd White, a savvy criminal lawyer and a former partner of Eddie Greenspan, I was trembling.
The notepad I'd just purchased said "Carpe Diem," and seize the day was exactly what I hoped to do.
In a scene Avrich says was like something from 'The Godfather,' Weinstein ordered him to a meeting at the Montage in Beverly Hills.
Harvey was sitting in the middle of an otherwise empty dining room with a group of associates.
It was like a scene from The Godfather , as if he had taken over the entire restaurant for his meetings.
He created Orion Pictures and was an adviser to Lyndon Johnson."
I walked out of the restaurant knowing I was still going to make the Harvey Weinstein story — and still trembling.
When the Page Six gossip column of the New York Post printed a story saying I was moving ahead with the Weinstein project, Harvey contacted me again.
Before that could happen, I called my friend Jim Sherry, who had worked at Miramax, for advice.
He's going to tell you what an unbelievable filmmaker you are and try to convince you not to make the film."
"Can you listen in quietly on my phone call with Harvey and take notes?"
Wire a million dollars into my account tomorrow, and we can get into a development deal together."
"How would you feel if I showed up on your doorstep with a film crew to make a movie about you?"
People have told me some salacious stories, but I'm not going down that road.
When The New York Times contacted him for another story about the film, he told them, "Barry is a great filmmaker."
When my mother, who knew about the threats over the Wasserman film, heard I was making a documentary about Weinstein, she asked, "Can't you pick another dead one so at least he can't kill you personally?"
By mid-June 2010, despite Harvey's harassment, I had all the interviews I needed for the film.
Word circulated through the industry that I had a rough cut worth seeing.
They offered me more money for a documentary than I had ever seen in a deal that included release through their own theater and television network.
Since they were in a hurry to get the deal done, I bought out my international contract with U.K.-based High Point Media so IFC could announce their acquisition.
Hell, they even had me sign the contract in Toronto on the hood of a stranger's Ferrari in front of Yorkville's Sassafraz restaurant.
With the deal in my pocket, I thought my only problem was to finish the film.
Then his agent got involved, warning him, "You make the same kind of movies Harvey does.
We worked out a deal, then he told me, "Harvey nixed it."
Christopher Plummer told me, "I live two houses away from Harvey in Connecticut.
Canadian uber-agent Perry Zimel recommended William Shatner.
Finally, I settled on Albert Shultz, who runs Toronto's Soulpepper theater company.
Weinstein and Sienna Miller at the 'Factory Girl' premiere afterparty in 2007.
And then Harvey threatened to fire the director when he didn't think the camera shots caught a wide-enough angle of the two stars in bed.]
[Editor's note: The Weinstein Co. denies this, producing separate statements from Christensen (“Harvey and I never had the conversation as described in the unauthorized book.
It also would have been very easy for the author to validate said info by checking with me but that never happened”) and Miller (“I can attest that Harvey's contributions to the film and its artists were all of a positive, collaborative and incredibly constructive nature”), as well as Weinstein Co. COO David Glasser, who says in a lengthy statement: “Sadly this story is sour grapes from George Hickenlooper regarding a film that was admittedly a tough shoot.
Guy Pearce and Sienna Miller had strong suggestions for the film and Harvey empowered them to improvise during the shoot.
Unfortunately, George was angry with Harvey and they weren’t able to resolve their difference before he passed away.
As far as the documentary, Harvey thinks Barry Avrich is a great filmmaker and tremendous writer and is impressed with this depiction.
However, as much as Harvey wishes he could live up to Barry's image, he is basically a nerd who reads three books a week and watches way too many black-and-white films.
Mr. Avrich essentially makes Harvey's Clark Kent look like Superman.”]
We buy his films," said Jonathan Sehring, president of IFC Entertainment.
"No, but IFC now owns the movie, and these are the changes we want to make."
That was when I realized I had reached Act III in my negotiations with Harvey Weinstein, as my friend had predicted.
True, Harvey hadn't killed me, as my mother feared, but he had sucker-punched me.
Had Harvey instructed IFC to buy my film to control it?
In the case of the Hickenlooper Factory Girl humping scene, I managed to save the anecdote by cutting Harvey's instructions down from six humps to four.
Those fears were briefly allayed when IFC's head of acquisitions told me Unauthorized would be entered into key international festivals, followed by a few high-end screenings in New York and Los Angeles before its mainstream launch.
Had my previous dealings with Harvey made me unnecessarily paranoid?
I flew to New York to speak to Sehring about release dates.
He said, "Barry, I have to tell you that Harvey sent a team to Toronto to see the film, and here's his list of changes they want."
When I continued to press for a distribution plan, I received a passionate promise from Sehring about the importance of the film to them and how they planned to use it to launch their new Netflix-like service.
Follow-up calls and meetings appeared to be vintage theater, designed to keep me distracted.
For the next year, IFC broke promises on screenings and marketing campaigns, probably hoping I would go away.
After months of avoiding my calls, Sehring and his acquisitions flunky nearly dropped their champagne glasses when they found me seated at a table next to them at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival.
Later, I ran into Weinstein himself on the terrace of the Hotel du Cap.
Typically, he was surrounded by stars: Jane Fonda, Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro.
When Peggy Siegal, the go-to person for getting celebrities to parties, recognized me, she called out, "Barry, do you know Harvey Weinstein?"
Weinstein (right) at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival with Kering CEO Francois-Henri Pinault and Pinault’s wife, Salma Hayek.
Harvey said, "I understand you made a good movie about me."
I rallied when a New York Times article in October 2011 asked, "What happened to the Harvey Weinstein film?"
On Oct. 7, 2011, they played Unauthorized on their obscure download service, SundanceNow.com, with zero publicity.
You had to be a tracker dog with a keen nose to find it.
IFC had refused to run my film in its New York theater.
I called up the director of film studies at New York University.
I'll come with great stories about the making of this film and show an uncensored cut."
"I'd like to open the screening up to the public," I told him, "so I'm taking an ad in The New York Times ."
As it turned out, of course, the Times refused my ad because, I believe, they were afraid of pissing off Harvey, who placed a lot of ads for his films in the Times .
I called the Times editorial division and told them that their ad department had turned me down.
I invited key players from New York and L.A., intent on becoming an irritant if that's what it took to get the film noticed.
The NYU theater was packed, and my panel did a great job for my moment of glory.
Afterward, I received a slew of emails and calls from insiders and lumi­naries, such as director Oliver Stone, who thought the film was amazing.
Ron Meyer, chairman of Universal Studios, also called to say that it was a perfect follow-up to my earlier film on Wasserman.
It was finally released intact in Canada in February 2011.
We subsequently created a Mogul Box Set of my films including Unauthorized .
When I asked him for a copy of The Imitation Game to show for the Floating Film Festival in January 2015, he said, "Yes, but I'm going to need a favor in return."
IFC Responds in a statement: "IFC refutes these claims and says the edits to the film were minor and were made for legal reasons and it was distributed appropriately.”
Excerpted from Moguls, Monsters and Madmen: An Uncensored Life in Show Business © Barry Avrich, 2016.
This story first appeared in the May 13 issue of The Hollywood Reporter magazine.