Vidya Balan lauds Kangana Ranaut for being brave
Rabiya Khan's devastating revelations about Sooraj Pancholi
Sushant-Kriti bond over Shah Rukh Khan
Aishwarya to skip amfAR Gala for 'Sarbjit'
Katrina Kaif finally agrees to star in ‘Aankhen’ sequel
Omung Kumar: Want 'Sarbjit' to release in Pakistan
Sidharth Malhotra to learn Krav Maga and Judo for this next film
Salman Khan: Every sportsperson in Indian Olympic contingent is a superstar
Evelyn @ La Hair Affaire TV actress in stylish hijab Salman's shoot with his nephews Azhar @ Radio Mirchi 63rd National Film Awards Amar Singh launches Bhouri Jacqueline takes rickshaw ride Sid's new hairstyle
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Kalki Koechlin's role is poles apart from Naseeruddin Shah in their upcoming hospital drama 'Waiting' and the actress says the emotional intelligence between the two helped them to convey the difference nicely.
PTI | May 5, 2016, 02.47 PM ISTKalki KoechlinKalki Koechlin's role is poles apart from Naseeruddin Shah in their upcoming hospital drama 'Waiting' and the actress says the emotional intelligence between the two helped them to convey the difference nicely.
Kalki Koechlin loves trekking Kalki Koechlin is a sports enthusiasts and loves mountain trekking.
The actress took up to trekking ever since she visited Manali as a child.
She would trekking on the mountains there.
Kalki, 32, plays a modern advertising professional, while Naseeruddin portrays the character of an old-school philosophy professor in the film as both the characters grapple with grief.
"We are from two different worlds in this film.
And it was easy for me because I have become comfortable with him.
I have seen a lot of his theatre works, I learn a lot from him."
"He can get angry at times and I know I can also get tired sometimes.
We really have an emotional intelligence between us.
We didn't really talk that much but we would really be able to communicate and understand what mood we are in.
We got on pretty well," Kalki told PTI in an interview.
The film depicts the journey of them getting to know each other in a hospital, while nursing their respective comatose spouses.
It also delves into the the themes of coping with grief and discovering hope in tragedy.
"There are moments in the film which are definitely difficult emotionally.
Like the initial part of the film, when I see my husband is in coma.
This was emotionally tense and draining.
The rest of the film is post all of this.
How do you deal with daily nitty gritties of hospital and how your life functions when the dearest one is in hospital."
Kalki said she took a cue from her own life's experience when someone close in her family was admitted in a hospital.
"I have had a family member in a hospital for a long time.
So, I know what that strain is like.
You have to go to work and be back to the hospital.
You have to deal with the regular security checks.
All the little details like waiting for the doctor and appointment keeps changing..."
The National-award winning actress will be seen in a glamorous avatar and Kalki credited her director Anu Menon behind her look.
"My character is a glamorous girl.
She is an advertising professional.
My director wanted me to be a little bit earthy and desi.
She asked me to wear kajal with dark hair.
She wears heels every time and likes to dress up."
Her character Tara Deshpande is an amalgamation of her and Menon's thoughts.
"I did a lot of work with Anu when the script got ready.
Actually, we worked on the dialogues of Tara together because we wanted to create her together.
So, we worked on how she will talk, we wanted her to be a bratty Mumbai girl."
The actress started her career with ex husband Anurag Kashyap's black comedy 'Dev D' followed by her stints in potboilers 'Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara' and 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani'.
Post that, she is choosing independent films be it disability drama 'Margarita with a Straw', for which she earned her first National award as a special mention, or upcoming release 'Waiting'.
"It's just happening and I am doing.
Of course, I want to do more commercial films but those don't come my way very often.
I like the kind of films I am doing currently.
"Kalki Koechlin avoids commenting on Farhan Akhtar
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia