Julianne Hough is facing major dress decision dilemma.
The former Dancing With the Stars pro admitted to ET she still hasn't been able to pick out the right dress for her upcoming wedding to her fiance, NHL pro Brooks Laich .
"I was trying to decide," the 27-year-old actress explained while promoting #ThanksTeach, a new campaign that honors teachers and raises money for public schools.
"I've been so lucky that I've been able to wear so many amazing designers and dresses on the red carpet, that I'm like, 'I don't even know what my style is,' because I love so many different things.
So I have no idea."
And while what to wear is still in limbo, her family plans are clear as day!
Well, sorta.
"I've wanted kids since I was like five years old," she revealed, noting that number could very well change over time.
"I said that I wanted four kids, and then I'm sure it'll go down to like three," Julianne shared.
"Then when I have the one, I'll be like, two, and then I'll be like, 'OK, I'm done.'"
Hough and Laich have been engaged since last August.
Although Hough spoke very freely of her own romance, she was more reserved when talking about her brother, Derek Hough, who has recently been linked to DWTS troupe member Hayley Erbert.
"I don't know.
I can't say anything about my brother, because he lives with me right now, and he would kill me," she joked.
Meanwhile, Julianne said she has closed the door -- at least, for now -- on returning as a judge on Dancing With the Stars.
"I love being a part of the family," she insisted, "but I still really want to focus on my personal career, and you know, focus on film and television."
Derek said as much when he opened up to ET in February about his sister's departure from the show.
"I think she did three great seasons, and it's time for her to go," he told ET's Katie Krause at the time.
"She's got great things on the horizon, and she's doing great things."
Playing EXCLUSIVE: Julianne Hough Has 'No Idea' What to Wear on Her Wedding Day, Talks Potential 'DWTS' Return