Remo D’Souza on National Award: ‘Sarkari naukri na sahi, sarkari award hi sahi’
Here's what Sophie Choudry, Sharma Joshi and Sherlyn Chopra are buying this Akshaya Tritiya
Manoj Kumar: When I heard about the Phalke honour, I thought, maine itne saal jhak nahi maari, kaam bhi kiya
Mayuri Kango: Actresses should complete education before coming to Bollywood
Kalki Koechlin: I was flattered when Mr Jaitley said he saw my YouTube video on the media
Triumph lingerie fashion show '16 Parineeti's size zero look Karishma @ store launch Kerry On Kutton: Launch B Positive: On the sets Frederick: Launch Te3n: Trailer Launch SRK, AbRam @ IPL
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Avinash LohanaSays Rakesh Roshan as Bollywood gears up for a Republic Day clash between Hrithik and Shah Rukh Khan
| Mumbai Mirror | May 6, 2016, 09.39 AM IST Shah Rukh Khan's 'Raees' was to clash with Salman Khan's wrestling drama on Eid.
After its release was pushed forward, speculations were rife about a Diwali confrontation with Karan Johar's Ranbir-Aishwarya-Anushka-Fawad-starrer 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil.'
On Tuesday, the makers of the Rahul Dholakia-directed drama announced that it would be unveiled on January 26, locking horns with Rakesh Roshan's 'Kaabil,' featuring son Hrithik and Yami Gautam, which had already locked on the Republic Day weekend.
Director Sanjay Gupta got into action at the end of March with Yami.
Hrithik joined the shoot on May 4.
"It's an interesting love story-cum-revenge drama based in Mumbai.
Hrithik and Yami fall in love and get married, but in a plot twist her character dies, following which he sets out to seek revenge," reveals writer Sanjay Masoomm who spent four months working on the dialogues and has worked on 'Krrish' and 'Krrish 3' earlier.
"Hrithik plays a blind man so I had to understand that aspect of the character before writing.
""Blinded by a million eyes watching me, when in fact I am the observer, I am the watcher.
The mind's eye sees all," Hrithik had posted while sharing the film's digital poster.
Mirror has learnt that Yami is blind too.Sanjay met a few blind men and saw more than 20 films, including 'Sparsh' and 'Qatl' as part of his prep.
They were shooting a Ganpati sequence on the first day of Hrithik's shoot and will be filming two romantic songs to be choreographed by Ahmed Khan soon.
Listen to Bang Bang songs on Gaana.com Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia