One more Empire star is officially off the market!
Kaitlin Doubleday married Devin Lucien in an intimate ceremony at the Ventana Inn in Big Sur, California, on a rainy Friday night.
Empire co-creator Lee Daniels and Doubleday's co-stars Gabourey Sidibe and Rafael de la Fuente were present for the nuptials.
Just ahead of the ceremony, one of Lucien's groomsmen, Omer Levy, shared a very dapper shot with the husband-to-be (bowties and all!
), writing, "My brotha is getting hitched tonight."
Another wedding party pal, Cameron Klippsten, shared a delightful sunglasses at night shot.
"I love this man," he captioned the Instagram.
"Congrats @devinlucien & @kaitlindday on your new beginning."
Doubleday and Lucien, a DJ based out of Los Angeles and Chicago, got engaged in Paris, France, last May.
The 31-year-old actress described the evening as "the most memorable night of my life thus far."
Lucien posted an equally adorable photo, captioning his Instagram, "SHE SAID YES!!!!!"
Both newlyweds were clearly excited as their big day approached, sharing tidbits about their soon-to-be-married life on social media.
On Thursday, Lucien tweeted, "Gonna be married tomorrow life is trippy that way," while Doubleday shared a shot of their wedding bands via Instagram.
"Making sure they fit/mesmerized by the spark on our drive to the end of our lives!
(Singles lives that is)," she captioned the snap taken from the passenger side on their way up to Central California.
Two more friends, Evan Silverberg and McNair Zimbalist, shared the same photo taken at the rehearsal dinner at Big Sur Bakery later that night, with Zimbalist captioning his Instagram post, "Picture perfect wedding weekend for @kaitlindday and @devinlucien.
Love you guys."
Doubleday's on-screen husband, Trai Byers, just got hitched as well.
He married their Empire co-star, Grace Gealey, in a secret wedding on Grand Cayman Island last month.
Byers was one of the first to send Doubleday his well-wishes after her engagement, sharing a very enthusiastic message in the caption of her Instagram post.
"Yay!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Congratulations Devin and Kaitie!!!!!!!
This is epic!!!
Love y'all.
Show em how it's done!!
So happy for you guys!!
!," he wrote.
Congratulations to the happy couple!
Kim Kardashian attended a pal's wedding last weekend in Miami, where she celebrated by taking a number of risqué photos of herself and many of the famous guests, who included her husband, Kanye West, and sister, Kourtney Kardashian.
Get all the details on the NSFW party shenanigans in the video below.
Photo: Instagram