Did Kangana Ranaut say no to working with international star Irrfan Khan?
The actor had us floored when he said he would not mind playing a ‘heroine’ in a film with the National Award-winning actress.
Was it sarcasm or praise?
We leave it to you.
There were reports that Irrfan, 49, and Kangana, 29, would come together for director Sai Kabir’s next Divine Lovers.
Kangana left the movie in December 2015, citing date issues while the buzz suggested that she was hesitant to work with Irrfan.
Now, Zareen Khan has replaced the Queen actress.
“Kangana has gone so out of reach that I will work with her only if I wish to be a heroine.
So if a script comes along wherein she plays the hero and I the heroine, I will do it,” Irrfan said at the trailer launch of his next Madaari.
Watch: Trailer of Irrfan’s Madaari
Divine Lovers revolves round the lower middle-class section of society and is set in the heartland of India.
The film is an adventure comedy, whose shoot starts in September.
The actor was also nonchalant about his film Madaari clashing with megastar Amitabh Bachchan’s Te3n.
“We decided two months back (about the release date of the film).
Is it (release date of Te3n) being decided now?
I think three films can come on June 10,” Irrfan told reporters on a lighter note.
“They are (referring to Amitabh Bachchan) big people, they have been in the industry for long time.
Have been watching their work since childhood.
We hope audience will watch both the films,” said Irrfan who shared space with the megastar in Piku.
Te3n, a thriller film directed by Ribhu Dasgupta, stars Amitabh Bachchan, Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Vidya Balan.
The film was earlier set for a 20 May release.
But later, when it was found to be clashing with Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s Sarbjit, the date was postponed to June 10.
Madaari is a social-thriller film directed by Nishikant Kamat and stars Irrfan Khan and Jimmy Shergill.
It is scheduled for release on June 10.
When Irrfan was asked if he is scared of the appreciation that actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui is receiving as both are from National School of Drama, he said, “Are we only two who are from NSD?” On watching Nawazuddin’s films, Irrfan said, “I liked “Lunchbox”.”