Celebrity and fashion photographer Matt Irwin, who photographed numerous A-list faces including Taylor Swift, Rihanna, Brie Larson and One Direction, died unexpectedly on May 5, 2016, The Hollywood Reporter confirmed Saturday.
He was 36.
A representative at Irwin's photo agency Camilla Lowther Management (CLM) said in a statement to THR , "It is with profound sadness that we announce the passing of British photographer, Matt Irwin.
Matt’s family and friends are heartbroken and have asked that their privacy be respected while they come to terms with their loss."
Irwin (courtesy of Camilla Lowther Management)
The statement continued, "Matt’s unprecedented access to a generation of musicians, models, and actors of our time leaves behind a visual chronicle that reveals - and pays testament to - his infectious passion, enthusiasm and talent.
Matt’s passing leaves a huge gap in the fashion world and in the hearts of all those who had the privilege of knowing him."
The cause of death has not been disclosed.
The British photographer was born in Southport, England on Feb. 10, 1980 and started capturing images at the age of 15 when his friend gave him a super eight camera.
He began his career in fashion, working at Dazed & Confused in London as the front sections editor, according to the CLM website .
His career as a photographer launched when he was approached by Dazed creative director and friend Nicola Formichetti to shoot photographs for the magazine, eventually leading to his first cover in 2007.
Over the span of his career, Irwin photographed several celebrities, including Daisy Ridley, James Franco, Nicki Minaj, Kesha, Cara Delevingne, Miley Cyrus, Gwen Stefani, Allison Williams, James McAvoy, Lady Gaga, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Reese Witherspoon.
Among the many publications — Elle UK , V Magazine , Vogue Russia and Vogue Japan — in which his work appeared, Irwin scored covers for Vogue Spain and Wonderland .
Following the news of his death, the photographer's famous friends and subjects took to social media to express their sorrow and condolences on his passing, including One Direction's Niall Horan, Rita Ora and Alexa Chung.