Updated: May 12, 2016 12:19 IST
Vivek Moozhikulam
Archana and Aarathy
Vivek Moozhikulam, an up-and-coming young musician, took to the stage on the first day of the Balaji Sangeetholsavam in Palakkad.
He commenced the concert with the beautiful Ada tala varnam in Reethigowla, ‘Vanajaksha.’ This was followed by a charming rendition of the popular kriti ‘Siddhi Vinayakam’ (Shanmukhapriya- Dikshitar), suffixed with impressive kalpanaswaras.
The renditions of the rare kriti ‘Paalimparadela’ (Aarabhi-Pallavi Sesha Iyer) and ‘Sri Mathrubhootham’ (Kannada- Dikshithar) were concise as well as soothing.
Lathangi and Bhairavi were chosen for detailed alapana.
‘Jaya Jaya Padmanabha’ (Manirang- Swati Thirunal) was sung with ease between ‘Venkataramana’ (Lathangi-Papanasam Sivan ) and ‘Balagopala’ (Bhairavi-Dikshitar), the main item of the day.
The niraval and swaras delineated for the main kriti were bewitching.
After the main item, Vivek showcased popular items such as ‘Ennathavam’ (Kapi) and ‘Kandena Govinda’ (Chandrakauns).
Young vilonist Brahmadathan’s knowledge and commitment to his art easily came across in his accompaniment.
His depiction of Lathangi and Bhairavi were particularly outstanding.
Palakkad A. Ganesan (mridangam) gave rhythmic support.
Archana and Aarathy, twins from Chennai, opened their recital on the concluding day, with the popular Purandaradasa kriti ‘Jaya Jaya Jaya Janaki Kantha’ (Natta), with a set of sparkling swaras on the pallavi.
They then moved to a graceful exhibition of ‘Rama Nannu brovara’ (Harikamboji-Tyagaraja) added with niraval and swaras.
‘Orajuppuju’ (Kannadagowla-Tyagaraja), ‘Raghuvara’ (Pantuvarali-Tyagaraja), ‘Chethasri Balakrishnam’ (Dwijavanthi- Dikshitar) and ‘Thrilokamathanannu’ (Paras- Syama Sastri) were presented with captivating bhava.
After the rendition of ‘Janani Ninnuvina’ (Reethigowla-Subbaraya Sastri), they switched over to the main ragam, Bhairavi, displayed with a lot of mellifluous sangathis.
After taniavartanam, they sung the majestic ragamalika kriti on Ramayana composed by Swati Tirunal – ‘Bhavayami Raghuramam.’ ‘Ramamanthrarava’ (Jonpuri) and ‘Vandematharam’ (Ragamalika) were the concluding numbers.
Thiruvizha Viju S. Anand (violin) and Ganesan (mridangam) extended support throughout the concert.
The concerts were held at Sri Venkatachalapathy Temple, Kumarapuram, Palakkad.
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.