Source Khloe Kardashian/Instagram
@brrriitttnnii 05/05/2016 AT 03:35 PM EDT
The Kardashians are taking over Cuba – but not without controversy.
On Wednesday, Khloé Kardashian shared a photo on Instagram of herself posing in sexy attire under a Fidel Castro inscribed into a wall in Havana.
Within seconds of the picture hitting social media, an influx of angry comments were posted questioning the reality star's choice to align herself with the dictator through the photo.
A slew of followers called the 31-year-old "ignorant" and "insensitive," while others demanded she take down the photo.
South Florida Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who was previously critical of the family told PEOPLE amid the uproar: "Another day in Cuba seems to bring another selfie in Havana for the Kardashians.
While Khloe is taking photos with a sign that says Fidel, she should have at least some awareness that Fidel would have prohibited a Kardashians-style show."
Continued Rep. Ros-Lehtinen: "More than anything it's disappointing that someone who exercises her free speech right in the U.S. is blind to the lack free speech when she takes a selfie glorifying a serial repressor."
Kardashian has been sharing several photos from her and her family's trip to Havana.
In one snap, she and sisters Kim and Kourtney Kardashian , as well as family friend Malika Haqq, are all smoking cigars.
In another, the reality star shows off her fashionable outfit: a nude-colored dress, a grey duster coat and a floppy hat, thus bringing even more controversy to the trip for "glamorizing" the country and its communist regime while filming scenes for Keeping Up with the Kardashians .
WATCH: U.S. Representative of Florida Takes Issue With Kardashian Trip to Cuba South Florida Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen slammed their "vapid" visit in an exclusive statement to PEOPLE Wednesday.
"I know it's cool for celebrities to go to Cuba, but the Cuban people don't experience the glamorous Havana that is featured on social media," Rep. Ros-Lehtinen said.
"Far from photo shoots and fruity drinks, everyday Cubans experience a different, sad reality.
Now, the Kardashians are parachuting into the island to tape their vapid TV show.
Haven't the Cuban people suffered enough?"
blog comments powered by