Arguably the biggest box office clash of this year was supposed to be between Salman Khan's Sultan and Shah Rukh Khan's Raees.
However, there are three crucial reasons why we were expecting Shah Rukh Khan to blink first and come up with a better option than clashing with Salman Khan.
Firstly, the debacle that was Dilwale versus Bajirao Mastani.
Secondly, have you seen the two Khans on social media?
There was never going to be a clash, those two are almost bffs now.
And thirdly, Shah Rukh Khan's last film Fan was a big gamble, which didn't pay off much at the box office .
Ajay Devgn and Shah Rukh Khan.
Images from IBN Live.
There's a lot more pressure on Shah Rukh Khan to ensure his next release is a massive success.
Which is why the news of Raees being shifted to January from Eid this year comes as no surprise.
SRK will need a big opening weekend, possibly one that falls on a national holiday, to ensure maximum reach.
However, as Firstpost reported earlier , by moving to January 2017, Raees would clash with Ajay Devgn's Badshaaho, making it the second time Shah Rukh Khan's film clashed with Ajay Devgn's film ( Jab Tak Hai Jaan and Son of Sardar in 2012).
Earlier last year, Shah Rukh Khan was seen bonding with Ajay Devgn in Bulgaria , where they looked like they were seriously figuring something out.
Why is this random bit of news important, you ask?
Well, this camaraderie has not gone wasted, because a s this DNA report states , Devgn is most likely going to push Baadshaho from January to 10 March, as he is currently shooting for Shivaay , which isn't likely to finish on time to make a January release.
You would this is the perfect ending to a complex clash of egos, but it's only getting started.
By moving Baadshaho to 10 March, Ajay Devgn is clashing with Dharma Productions' Badrinath Ki Dulhaniya.
And surprise, surprise, this isn't the first time this clash is happening.
Devgn and Dharma productions are clashing this Diwali anyway, with Shivaay and Ae Dil Hai Mushkil vying for the same spot.
Phew, that's a lot of dates and names to remember.
Let's hope this time it's a genuine case of 'All's well that ends well'.