Khloe Kardashian is feeling the heat from her famous family.
In a sneak peek clip from a new of episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians , the 31-year-old star continues to be the topic of discussion when her sister, Kim Kardashian West, pays a visit to Caitlyn Jenner in New York City ahead of husband Kanye West's fashion show and The Life of Pablo album release party.
While in the Big Apple, Kim attempts to get Caitlyn to open up about the rumored tiff with Khloe , as well as Lamar Odom's reaction to seeing her transition for the first time.
Kim tells Caitlyn that Khloe's estranged husband -- who was put into a medically induced coma after he was found unresponsive at a brothel in Las Vegas last October -- had seen something on the news about the former Olympian and was confused by her new appearance, so Kim had to explain to him that "it's Caitlyn now."
"I know Khloe tried to explain it to him a couple times, but at that point I don't think he was getting anything," Caitlyn, 66, says.
Khloe previously stated that she had "kept Lamar very sheltered " while he was in recovery.
Kim, 35, quickly changes the subject, asking Caitlyn bluntly, "Have you talked to Khloe at all?"
"She hasn't been talking to me lately," Caitlyn explains, confirming the two had gotten into a feud.
The clip then jumps to a solo interview with Kim, where she reveals "Khloe and Caitlyn are kind of on the outs."
"Everyone has to put our differences aside for this week and be cool," she continues.
Back in January, Khloe got candid during an interview with Howard Stern , revealing that she and her family felt "betrayed" by Caitlyn because they had found out about her transition during a business meeting for the docu-series I Am Cait .
"We felt betrayed because more business people [knew]," Khloe told Stern at the time.
"We felt so, like, what the f**k?
We've been asking you, and why do [business people] know?
I never want someone to feel like they have a one-up on our family.
We've never turned our backs on each other, with all the clusterf**ks of sh*t in our lives, so why would we now?"
"Bruce made it a point for all of us to watch [Caitlyn's interview with Diane Sawyer ] together, and that's when it was the first time we heard a lot of things," Khloe added.
"We didn't even know about Diane Sawyer until it was taped and done.
On that show is when we genuinely found out about transitioning."
Following the interview, Khloe told her mother, Kris Jenner, that Caitlyn had sent her a series of nasty texts and asked that her momager take care of it.
Kris stuck up for Khloe, explaining to Caitlyn, "You're making this, like, so hard.
Khloe isn't out to get you.
You were her father!
OK, but you were her dad since she was five years old.
Like, give her a break!"
As we patiently wait to see what happens next on season 12 of KUWTK , which airs Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on E!, watch the video below to see highlights from Rob Kardashian's long-awaited return to the reality series.
Playing Caitlyn Jenner Tells Kim Kardashian That Khloe 'Hasn't Been Talking' to Her on 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians'