1/9
Sushant Singh Rajput and Ankita Lokhande's breakup rumours came as a shock, especially since the duo had publicly announced that they were going to tie the knot soon.
While several reports touted SSR's closeness to his co-star Kriti Sanon as the reason for the breakup, others claimed that it was Ankita's clingy ways that caused the split.
While the duo didn't officially confirm the split, fans of the couple were hoping for a reconciliation between the former love birds.
However, in a bid to end speculations, Sushant took to his official Twitter account to confirm the breakup.
He tweeted, "Neither she was an alcoholic nor I am a womaniser .
People do Grow apart & its unfortunate .
Period!!"
And with that statement, another B-Town relationship officially comes to an end.Move on to the next slide to read about the what caused SSR - Ankita to grow apart...
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/Sushant-Singh-Rajput-confirms-his-breakup-with-Ankita-Lokhande/eventshow/52119001.cmsSushant Singh Rajput and Ankita Lokhande's breakup rumours came as a shock, especially since the duo had publicly announced that they were going to tie the knot soon.
While several reports touted SSR's closeness to his co-star Kriti Sanon as the reason for the breakup, others claimed that it was Ankita's clingy ways that caused the split.
While the duo didn't officially confirm the split, fans of the couple were hoping for a reconciliation between the former love birds.
However, in a bid to end speculations, Sushant took to his official Twitter account to confirm the breakup.
He tweeted, "Neither she was an alcoholic nor I am a womaniser .
People do Grow apart & its unfortunate .
Period!!"
And with that statement, another B-Town relationship officially comes to an end.Move on to the next slide to read about the what caused SSR - Ankita to grow apart...
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/Mandana-Karimi-to-tie-the-knot/eventshow/51904325.cmsInteresting is the life of Mandana Karimi, the jaw-dropping beautiful Iranian model, and actor who came to India looking for glamour.
While it was reported she was married to model Lalit Tehlan for a while (he who famously dated designer Rohit Bal just before he met Mandana), she was also allegedly seriously in love with politician Ajit Pawar's son Parth, reports Mumbai Mirror.
Her current beau Gaurav `Moneybags' Gupta, a film financier's son with a sprawling bungalow on Juhu beach, had shown up in a reality show Karimi had participated in.
Gupta, who was also hitched before, and Mandana have been going strong for a couple of years already.In fact, the two are currently holidaying in Japan, enjoying the springtime Sakura with their parents in tow.
Yes, this is the official meeting of both their parents and a wedding may soon be in the offing.
Friends of Gupta wondered how the conservative Marwaris would agree to a marriage between the two.
But like we often say, everyone loves a lover.While Mandana might tie the knot real soon, click on the next slide to find out which B-Town celebrity might tie the knot real soon...
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747666.cmsIt is indeed the season of weddings in Bollywood.
After Shahid Kapoor tying the knot with Mira Rajput in a glamorous ceremony, it was Geeta Basra and Harbhajan Singh’s high-profile wedding that made headlines recently.
Many other Bollywood couples are all set to walk down the aisle soon.
We bring to you a list of B-town stars who may tie the knot in 2016.
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747664.cmsRanbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif have remained tight-lipped about their relationship.
However rumours are rife that the duo is staying together and seem to be having a good time.
According to a PTI report, Ranbir Kapoor spoke about his personal life in an interview with Anandabazar Patrika.
The PTI report further quoted Ranbir as saying, "This year both of us are extremely busy, so there won't be any time for the marriage.
We have planned to tie the knot by the end of next year.
Both of us have agreed on that."
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747663.cmsAnushka Sharma and Virat Kohli have been open about their relationship.
While they may not speak directly about it, Anushka is always seen cheering for the Indian Test cricket captain.
However, when it comes to marriage, the duo has never revealed anything.
An official statement by Anushka said, "There is no truth to the stories/rumours about Anushka Sharma's impending wedding.
Currently she is busy and happy with her work commitments.
She has always been open about her life and would appreciate it and request everyone to wait for her to make announcements about her life instead of speculating."
However, according to a report on Bollywoodlife.com, the duo has been house hunting.
Seems like moving in together sometime soon is the way to go for the duo.
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747661.cmsAce cricketer, Yuvraj Singh, has been linked to several Bollywood actresses, the most recent one being Hazel Keech, as reported by Mumbai Mirror.
Apparently the two together attended the glamorous wedding of Harbhajan Singh and Geeta Basra.
The report further stated that a Punjabi style roka (engagement) is due in November, 2015 and the marriage would take place next year.
However, Yuvraj Singh took to micro-blogging site, Twitter, to clear the air.
"So now my dear media has decided the venue and month of my marriage can u also tell me the dates so I can get ready well in time !"
he wrote.
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747660.cmsRanveer Singh and Deepika Padukone are one of the most adorable Bollywood couples.
While they prefer not to speak about their relationship, Ranveer and Deepika's public appearances are a testimony of their amazing off-screen chemistry.
According to a Mumbai Mirror report, Ranveer has met Dippy's parents and he also went on a shopping spree with Deepika, her mother and sister in Bangalore.
While the family seems to be bonding, we are hopeful that the duo will tie the knot in 2016!
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747658.cmsAsin recently came out in the open about her marriage plans to Micromax head honcho, Rahul Sharma.
The actress, who was last seen in Abhishek Bachchan-starrer, All Is Well, opened up about her wedding in an interview with Bombay Times.
Asin was quoted as saying that she and Rahul will get married by the end of the year.
However, she is being tight-lipped about the dates.
A Bombay Times report also stated that Rahul had gifted Asin a 20-carat solitaire ring that was specially imported from Belgium.
/bollywood-celebs-who-may-tie-the-knot-in-2016/eventshow/49747657.cmsSome time ago, Mugdha Godse and Rahul Dev shared picture of them together.
According to a Bombay Times report, model-turned-actor Mugdha Godse had acknowledged that Rahul Dev was someone she can count on and that he is more than a friend to her.
In a very nonchalant manner, Mugdha shared a picture with Rahul, relaxing by the pool.
While it looks like the duo is being open about their relationship, we hope that they will make things official in 2016!