240 get new life at NMCH de-addiction centre in 1 month
Saffron party for beef ban in Bihar
Paswan writes to Nitish on requirement of pulses
Futab demands discussion before change
Academics rue education minister's remarks
Villagers flee home fearing Red menace
Govt spends more on jail inmates than SC/ST students, patients
Prices of pulses will not be allowed to cross Rs 120/kg:Paswan
Bihar Road rage: Social activists take out candle march in Patna demanding justice for Aditya
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party
Fake degrees row: BJP presents proof of PM Narendra Modi's degrees Agusta case: War of words between Jairam Ramesh and Subramanian Swamy Sainik colony issue: No such land has been allotted, says Mehbooba Mufti Sports persons best for Olympics ambassador: Ashwini Ponnappa Chopper scam: PM Modi's stinging attack on Gandhis Aam Aadmi Party MLA attacked in Delhi
Vithika Salomi'Queen' and 'Shaandaar' fame director Vikas Bahl is all set to helm a movie on the life of Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar, who has sent over 300 poor students to the IITs over the past several years.
| May 9, 2016, 10.56 PM IST Patna: 'Queen' and 'Shaandaar' fame director Vikas Bahl is all set to helm a movie on the life of Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar, who has sent over 300 poor students to the IITs over the past several years.An agreement for the movie was signed between Kumar and the film's producers Vinay Sinha and Preeti Sinha here on Monday.
Kumar was first approached for a movie almost five years ago by film writer Sanjiv Dutta, who has written the scripts for hits like 'Barfi!
', 'Page 3' and 'Gangster'.
"It was my wife's idea that I script this biopic," Dutta said.
After that director Anurag Basu, actor Priyanka Chopra and many other Bollywood personalities showed interest in making a movie on Kumar's life.
"But, either I was not happy with the agreement or the team or with something else and the movie did not materialize.
Now, with this team, I'm sure the movie is going to come out well and will be lapped up by the people," Kumar said while addressing media after signing the contract on Monday.
Kumar said Bahl was his first choice as a director for a movie on him.
However, no actor has been finalized yet to step into Kumar's shoes on big screen.
"All top actors will be considered for the role.
However, only an actor who understands Kumar's struggle will be able to do justice to his role.
Many actors have already expressed interest to play the role," Bahl said and added in a lighter vein, "I have seen Kumar taking a class and there is no better performer than him."
Dutta said the film will span over 20 years and will capture Kumar's own journey as well as what he has been doing for so many kids in the form of Super 30.
Bahl said the film's producers have assured him to spare no cost.
"It will be a big budget movie with big promotions and all.
Parts of it may be shot in Patna, too," the director added.
The filmmakers are presently researching on Kumar's life and connecting with his students who are now making it big across the globe.
"They have interesting stories to tell," Bahl said and added that the first draft of the film should be ready in the next six months or so.
"After that, it will be a year before the biopic hits the screen worldwide," the producers said.
As per the contract, Kumar will be entitled to 12.5% profits from the movie which, he said, will be used for the betterment of Super 30.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia