His physique is impressive.
Acquiring a brawny body isn’t the norm at the age of 38.
But Kunal Kapoor, who has gained 12 kg of muscle weight for his next project Veeram , admits to having a skinny past.
“As a kid I was very skinny.
But now know the value of being fit.
People misconstrue the meaning of body shaming.
They think that body shamming happens only with overweight people.
Reality is that even thin guys can be subjected to this,” says Kunal.
While his contemporaries hit the gym, Kunal believes in a combination of martial arts and gym to get him the desired results.
“I do a combination of gym and martial arts.
On occasions I also play sports as well.
Both ways help you in their own sense.
Working out for me means a blend of the two and it gives me better results.”
Shedding light on his fitness mantra, Kunal says, “I think it is criminal not to be fit and enjoy good food.
I just follow a schedule which entails working out and enjoying my share of food at the same time.
It is important for people to realise that they need to do everything in moderation.
You cannot avoid enjoying food or getting lazy and not working out.
Both these tasks need to go hand in hand.”
Explaining the reason behind people’s reluctance to hit the gym, Kunal says: “People are usually full of excuses when it comes to exercise like they do not have time.
But this is because people think that they need to exercise for an hour.
In reality even 10 minutes are better than nothing at all and you can always find innovative ways to achieve that.”
Justifying his decision to endorse a snack like Kurkure and yet talk about his mantra for fitness, the actor says: “I believe everything in moderation is good.
Things done in moderation do not affect your health or fitness.
Nothing should be completely taken off the table.
I believe in having a little bit of everything.
Apart from home cooked food like dal, chawal, roti and sabzi, I also binge on junk food.”
Kunal was in the Capital’s Taj Mahal Hotel where he launched the snack available in a range of new flavours along with Parineeti Chopra and Rocky and Mayur of Highway On My Plate fame.
Kunal Kapoor Photo Shanker Chakravarty.