Not many of us know the power of the Maithili language, but now the nation knows.
For Anurita Jha, acting in Mithila Makhaan , which bagged award at the 63 National Film Awards under the Best Maithili Film category, has given her not only an opportunity to understand nuances of her mother tongue but also to work in a project close to her heart.
Directed by Nitin Chandra and produced by Neetu Chandra and Sameer Kumar, the film – shot in the United States, Canada, India and Nepal – has been made with careful attention being given to give authentic depiction of Bihari culture right from diction of the Maithili language to the casting of actors.
The Gangs of Wasseypur fame actor, who was born in Bihar but grew up in Pilani, is in high spirits with the recognition that has come the film’s way.
Excerpts from an interview:
How does it feel to be a part of such a path breaking project?
It feels wonderful.
Initially, I was not looking forward to take up this movie.
I already had stereotyped it to be like other films but I am glad I went ahead with it.
No experience could have been better.
My grandfather had contributed to the literary knowledge over the years and now it was my chance of contributing to the language.
Was special attention given to the dialect?
What makes the project more special is the authenticity maintained in it.
All actors knew the language correctly.
This movie will make all those wandering for better opportunities outside the State to go back to their roots.
Now they will be encouraged to contribute towards enriching the land which has given them their identity.
How was the experience working with your co-actors and the language?
My co-actors were amazing to work with.
All of us knew the same language and had the fun while conversing in it.
All day what we did was Gapp, what they say in Bihar, with each other.
As I was brought up in Pilani, I did not converse in Maithili much before and this movie and the time spend there helped me to re-unite with my language and had brought me a lot closer to my culture.
I am a true and proud Bihari at heart and always will be.
Working in Bihar though was a little rough for me because of the hot weather I am not accustomed to, but overall, it was a lifetime of experience.
Will this film change the stereotypical image of Bihar?
I believe the movie will help in breaking the image that movies from Bihar and Jharkhand have formed nowadays.
The film has explored an entirely new side and demonstrated that good productions have the capability to change perception of the people.
It is sad that all Maithili movies are moving towards the Bhojpuri industry which makes people look down on the culture and language.
Maithili has been the language of intellectuals but has been misrepresented in the past few years.
And now it is time for a change.
How will this exposure help you in your career in Bollywood?
Career in the industry has always been a tricky path and is never on the same lines.
Some days you are up on sky and the next you are left with nothing.
All I take this from this film for now is happiness and pride.