Brie Larson brought her Oscar-winning talent to Saturday Night Live on the May 7 Mother's Day episode.
After a monologue that featured castmembers' mothers on stage (Beck Bennett assured his mother that he was dating Larson and Bobby Moynihan asked his mom to DVR Vanderpump Rules ), Larson brought her own mom up on stage and encouraged the crowd to take their families to see Room over the holiday weekend.
An SNL parody commercial for President Barbie didn't quite get through to little girls, who instead chose to play with LEGOs and a broom over the Hillary Clinton-inspired doll.
The slogan might not have resonated with the demographic: "No fun... but definitely a president!"
In a sketch similar to the one that broke Ryan Gosling earlier in the season, Larson joined "medical miracles" Cecily Strong and Kate McKinnon to discuss their near-death experiences.
McKinnon's experience was yet again quite different than the ethereal moments that Larson and Strong had.
At a baby shower later, Larson was questioned about when she would get her official mom's haircut (described as "a soft waterfall in the front but knives in the back" or "the scared dinosaur from Jurassic Park ").
Her long-haired character didn't understand "The Cut," but her neighborhood's moms were there to help.
"The Cut is upon us," warned McKinnon.
In a futuristic 2018 game show, Larson tried very hard to guess who the second-place GOP candidate was in 2016, but she didn't have much luck.
It was only after several clues (including the one that he was her husband) that she, Heidi Cruz, remembered his name.
"Weekend Update" spent quite a bit of time on presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump, including a takedown of his Cinco de Mayo post before Sasheer Zamata discussed Larry Wilmore's speech at the White House Correspondents' Dinner, replacing the word "McGriddle" for the n-word.
The musical guest for the night was Alicia Keys, who is set join NBC's The Voice as a coach this fall.
Next up on SNL , Drake will serve as host and musical guest on May 14.
Former castmember Fred Armisen is set to host the season 41 finale on May 21 with first-time musical guest Australian singer-songwriter Courtney Barnett.
Saturday Night Live May 07, 2016
9:41pm PT by
Jennifer Konerman
The Oscar-winner learned about mom haircuts and discussed near-death experiences on 'Saturday Night Live.'
Jennifer Konerman
THRnews@thr.com