Chrissy Teigen is definitely feeling the love this Mother's Day !
John Legend used their newborn daughter , Luna, to deliver a sweet message to his wife on her special day.
The 37-year-old singer singer dressed his baby girl up in a onesie with the words "Happy 1st Mother's Day" and a giant red heart printed on it, which he shared with fans via Instagram on Sunday.
"To my wonderful wife, @chrissyteigen.
Luna and I are so lucky to have you in our lives," he wrote.
"If our daughter can be even half as awesome as you, I will be so happy and proud.
Happy 1st Mother's Day!"
Teigen posted the pic to her Snapchat, adding two red heart emojis.
She also shared some photos of their Mother's Day brunch, which consisted of slow scrambled eggs, chicken and waffles, and roasted bacon.
Photo: Snapchat
"Making brunch with my favorite mama," the doting dad captioned another pic of Teigen in the kitchen, which she reposted to her own account.
Legend also shared a pic of his girls cuddling up close on the couch.
But, hold up -- can we talk about that killer bod ?
It's only been three weeks since the brunette beauty gave birth , and she's already looking hotter than ever.
(Yes, three weeks.)
On Saturday night, she flaunted her slim figure in high-cut denim shorts, which she styled with a bodysuit, silky black jacket and strappy heels during a date night with Legend at Jones Hollywood restaurant in Los Angeles.
Photo: Splash News
The 30-year-old model looked just as flawless earlier in the day, when she donned a white suit and glamorous makeup while they were backstage for what Legend described as "a very secret music video."
Photo: Snapchat
She and Legend attempted to use the app's face-swap feature again, hoping for a better outcome from the last time they tried.
The result was, well, not so great.
Photo: Snapchat
"Why are ours so bad," Teigen asked Legend, who responded, "They're so bad."
"Because you have a beard," Legend added.
"You're not supposed to have a beard."
Ever since the couple welcomed Luna into the world, they haven't been able to stop gushing over their little bundle of joy via social media.
Last weekend, Teigen shared a pic from "bath time" with her baby girl to Instagram, captioning it, "Bath time is tooooo cute!
My heart, it hurts."
Watch the video below to hear more.
Playing Chrissy Teigen Receives Adorable Mother's Day Message From John Legend, Shows Off Killer Post-Baby Bod