Could Channing Tatum be any cuter ?
The 36-year-old actor took to Instagram on Sunday to wish his wife, Jenna Dewan Tatum , a very happy Mother's Day, and the lengthy, heartfelt message is about to melt your heart.
Not only does Channing praise Jenna's skills as a parent to their daughter, Everly, he assures his wife that she is just as beautiful today as the day he fell in love with her.
It is pretty, pretty epic.
"I took this just days after jenna and I (mostly jenna) brought our little girl into the world," he wrote.
"I've taken many like it over the past 3 years but this is one of my favorites.
She was so tired.
Haha.
But she has such deep strength and other worldly grace.
Watching her in those first days transform into a mother was life changing.
She was every bit the beautiful, sexy, funny, flawed creature I fell in love with.
But the prism turned and showed a whole new light that I had no idea existed, the light of a mothers love.
Thank you for that baby."
"Saw this quote today -- 'The most important thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother.
Theodore Hesburgh,'" he concluded.
"There are a lot of important things in being a father.
Who knows what the most important thing is?
All I know is that in my case this is pretty high on my list.
Love you cake!"
Channing calls his wife Cake!
Seriously, it's wonderful and precious and, ultimately, the most epic note a mom could ask for.
His charm didn't end with that Instagram, however.
Moments later, the Magic Mike XXL star shared a sweet snap of himself giving his own mom, Kay Tatum, a kiss on the cheek.
After admitting he went "on a quote tear today," he cited Abraham Lincoln and added, "She has put up with a lot over the years.
Wow.
Don't how we got here mama.
But I know it's cause of you.
I be lovin you."
As for Jenna, she showed off some of the gifts she received from Channing and Everly -- who turns three on May 31 -- via Snapchat.
The presents included a card that called her "the best mommy out there," flowers and drawings.
Photo: Snapchat
The 35-year-old actress also posted a photo of herself giving little Evie a kiss on the cheek.
She added the Mother's Day filter to the snap and also wrote over it, "I [love] this little monkey so much."
Photo: Snapchat
Earlier this month, Channing told ET that he and his wife plan on expanding their family "someday."
"I'm really blessed," he said at the Hearst NewFronts.
"We have a nice little, crazy little family life that's super simple.
Find out what else he had to say about his beautiful brood, as well as Magic Mike Live , in the video below.
Playing Channing Tatum Pens Epic Mother's Day Note to Wife Jenna Dewan Tatum