Don't expect a reconciliation anytime soon between former The Girls Next Door co-stars Holly Madison and Kendra Wilkinson.
Although Wilkinson recently mended her relationship with their mutual friend and co-star, Bridget Marquardt -- which was aired on last week's episode of Wilkinson's reality show Kendra On Top -- the same definitely can't be said for her and Madison.
In a new interview with People , Madison says that she tried to have an off-camera friendship with Wilkinson years ago, but she's now completely over it.
"I don't want to let myself and my friendship with someone be jerked around based on what's convenient for someone's reality show," Madison tells the magazine.
"She can bad mouth me or put words in my mouth, but I'm not going to fall for that."
"I don't think there would be anything positive about us meeting up," she adds.
"It's not a real friendship and it's not part of my life anymore."
Photo: Getty Images
Madison, however, has no ill will towards Marquardt.
"Bridget and I have always been friends off camera," she stresses.
"There's a big difference between what's real and what's genuine versus someone who is like, 'I want to be in a feud with you this week because it's good for ratings.'
I'm done playing those games."
"I wish [Wilkinson] the best, but I'm done with that portion of my life," Madison, who's now married and is currently expecting baby number two , continues.
"I've moved on.
I'm happier now."
Last September, Wilkinson slammed Madison's claims against Playboy founder Hugh Hefner in an episode of Kendra on Top .
In Madison's 2015 tell-all memoir, Down the Rabbit Hole: Curious Adventures and Cautionary Tales of a Former Playboy Bunny , she accuses 90-year-old Hefner of emotional abuse and giving her "thigh-opening drugs."
Madison, 36, stated that things got so bad that she contemplated suicide , while Hefner has since denied all accusations .
"What Holly is saying is extremely false," Wilkinson, 30, said.
"I'm like, 'Where did this s**t come from?'
...
Someone needs to have a voice against this.
Hef won't do it.
He's too nice of a guy.
It's just weird how someone can get away with such a thing."
Wilkinson also made it clear during her recent meet-up with Marquardt -- during which she apologized to Marquardt, 42, for past comments that the two never had a real friendship -- that there's still no love lost when it comes to her and Madison.
"I just never saw hope and friendship with her," Wilkinson bluntly said.
"There was never a moment where I can say she felt real to me.
Do we owe it to ourselves to hear each other out?
For sure.
But if that never happens, then that's the way it's gonna be I guess."
Playing Holly Madison Is So 'Done' With Kendra Wilkinson: 'It's Not a Real Friendship'