Today is May 9, the eve of the outbreak of the First War of Independence of 1857 in Meerut which spread to Delhi on 11th May.
Emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar was no doubt taken by surprise when the rebel sepoys reached the Capital via the Calcutta Gate, though they actually entered the Walled City through the Rajghat Gate in Daryaganj.
However, two days earlier in many homes in the Jama Masjid, Chandni Chowk and Mori Gate areas gossip was rife that the days of the British Raj were over.
Haji Zahoorudin, whose maternal grandfather was Maulvi Rajab Ali (the man who brought about Zafar’s surrender) used to say in 1957, when the centenary of the First War of Independence was observed, that the Maulvi had warned his family to be prepared for earth-shaking events that would make blood flow again on the streets of Delhi, as it did when Nadir Shah ordered the massacre in 1739.
Maulvi Rajab Ali, incidentally, headed a secret service of his own.
In many other homes, like that of Lala Hanwant Sahai in Chandni Chowk, women used to collect every evening after their chores were done and talk of the predictions of Babbal (turmoil) by soothsayers following the appearance of the Jahoodar tara (comet) that appeared in the horizon at midnight behind the Red Fort.
“It spells doom for the praja (subjects) or the ruler (the East India Company in this case),” they would mutter.
In Kutcha Mir Ashiq, just behind the Jama Masjid, where Maulvi Rajab Ali’s son-in-law Munshi Turab Ali and his family used to stay, after the evening meal was cooked, the children were served dinner early and told to retire to bed, and the elderly women sat down to talk of what fate might have in store.
When the menfolk arrived they too joined in the hush-hush talk, bringing with them all the gup of the day.
They told the women not to discuss their forebodings with neighbours as the Angrez Sarkar’s spies were all over the city and listening to conversations in streets, shops, eating houses and religious places.
They were both Muslims and Hindus, some with long beards and black marks between the eyebrows which seemingly indentified them as pious namazis, and others with tilaks on their foreheads and dressed either like pandits, traders or as strangers from other cities who showed curiosity in the everyday affairs in public places.
There were Kutnis (women spies) too eavesdropping at the zenanas.
In Kashmere Gate and the Civil Lines, Anglo-Indian and local Christian families had their own tales.
The bearers and khansamas brought word from the bazaars that there were moves afoot to overthrow the Raj.
George Heatherleys great-grandmother used to shake her head and say, “God knows what’s going to happen in Fajar (morning) for the sweeperwoman was saying, ‘Memsahib be prepared to flee somewhere for fakirs like the Maulvi of Faizabad are sounding the alarm that the days of the infidels were numbered and the Padshah is going to rule again after every Firangi in either killed or jailed.
For the city, despite the bravado of the Skinner haveliwallahs and Metcalfe Sahib’s heir at Matka Kothi, has been shamed far too long by half-naked mems dancing unabashedly with males not even distantly related to them.
The pork-eaters have profaned our hallowed Delhi, sacred to the 22 Khwajas or saints by not only eating forbidden food but also drinking at the Rauzas (mausoleums) and making love in them’.”.
“Firdaus Jan, a dancing girl of Chawri Bazar, refused to sleep with a Gora who had entered her brothel at midnight, dead drunk and wearing only khaki knickers.
The Gora created a scene and was beaten up by the Bharuas.
But next day Firdaus and her pimps were arrested and taken to the police chowki, where they were flogged mercilessly and then put in the lockup, with poor Firdaus wearing just a torn petticoat that hardly hid her shame.” This was stated by Sibbo the mehtrani who cleaned the toilet of Nawabzada Mohd Ismail.
She added that the Gora who wanted sexual favours the previous night was actually an Angez spy checking out on the ambience (fiza) in the red light area as the Firangis had got wind of the “seditious gossip” being spread in the mohallas and kutchas.
There was some truth in these happenings as long before May 11 the sadhus and fakirs had been going about distributing chapattis, lotus and brinjal flowers all over North India and asking people to clean their rusty talwars so that they could use them when the call for inquilab (revolution) came.
They affirmed that the curse of 100 years after the Battle of Plassey, when the Raj came into being, was over and now the kafirs were going to be thrown back into the sea via which they entered the country as docile traders.
One can vouch for these tales as in 1947 (90 years after the First War of Independence) Elias Nana proclaimed, while smoking his hookah, that the communal riots were in keeping with the trend of bloodshed that took place since 1556, when Hemu was defeated, 1667 that sparked the war of succession between the sons of Shah Jahan, 1757 when Clive won at Plassey, then the Ghadar and now almost a century later, a parting kick by the ferangis.
Whenever May 10 comes around such thoughts naturally come to mind though Nana has been dead for 50 years and Siboo the sweeperess even longer, while the Nawabzada for whom she worked passed away much earlier and Nana’s maternal great-grandson Noelle, believe it or not, on the portentous May 10, in 1997, not far from the street named after the heroic Mangal Pandey who started it all by refusing to bite the tainted grease cartridges.
Now what about 2047 – or then 2057?
The author is a veteran chronicler of Delhi
A view of Ajitgarh in Delhi Photo Sushil Kumar Verma.