1/16
Post his alleged breakup with Katrina Kaif, Bollywood actor Ranbir Kapoor has often been spotted in a foul mood, especially when it comes to the paparazzi.
The actor had earlier requested a photographer to stop following him.
He had said, "I am perplexed that despite our best efforts to hide our whereabouts, I am followed almost every day.
I have a personal life and I request you to ignore me.
I have seen the media waiting even outside my family doctor's clinic.
Please end this."
This time, however, the actor was furious with a photojournalist who had followed him all the way to his buddy, Ayan Mukerji's house.
On spotting the photojournalist, the 'Tamasha' actor gave him a verbal lashing, reports Spotboye.com.
The report further stated that the actor then went on to snatch the photographer's phone and asked him to collect it later, before zooming off to enjoy dinner.
The Kapoor lad returned only at 3 am in the wee hours of the morning, and when he spotted the helpless photojournalist waiting for him at the gate, the actor summoned him inside and gave him an earful once again before handing over his phone.Move on to the next slide to read about other celebs who slammed the media...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/Ranbir-Kapoor-gets-furious-at-photographer-snatches-away-phone/eventshow/52186651.cmsPost his alleged breakup with Katrina Kaif, Bollywood actor Ranbir Kapoor has often been spotted in a foul mood, especially when it comes to the paparazzi.
The actor had earlier requested a photographer to stop following him.
He had said, “I am perplexed that despite our best efforts to hide our whereabouts, I am followed almost every day.
I have a personal life and I request you to ignore me.
I have seen the media waiting even outside my family doctor's clinic.
Please end this.” This time, however, the actor was furious with a photojournalist who had followed him all the way to his buddy, Ayan Mukerji's house.
On spotting the photojournalist, the 'Tamasha' actor gave him a verbal lashing, reports Spotboye.com.
The report further stated that the actor then went on to snatch the photographer's phone and asked him to collect it later, before zooming off to enjoy dinner.
The Kapoor lad returned only at 3 am in the wee hours of the morning, and when he spotted the helpless photojournalist waiting for him at the gate, the actor summoned him inside and gave him an earful once again before handing over his phone.Move on to the next slide to read about other celebs who slammed the media...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/Farhan-Akhtar-loses-his-cool-when-asked-about-estranged-wife/eventshow/52005191.cmsEver since Farhan Akhtar and Adhuna Akhtar ended their 15-year old marriage, the two have maintained a stoic silence about the same.
Although the two have stated that they have parted on good terms, Farhan's recent behaviour when asked about him being in touch with ex-wife Adhuna was not expected.
After exiting a recent party which was attended by both Farhan and Adhuna, while giving media bytes, Farhan was asked if he interacted with Adhuna or not, to which he replied by saying, "We should talk to each other na, why are you acting so surprised?"
To this the reporter said that they had heard rumours of them not interacting at the party.
Farhan lost his cool on hearing this and asked the reporter to take it easy, before storming off in his car.Farhan Akhtar isn't the only celeb who's slammed the media, click on the next slide to read about other celebs who've slammed the media...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/Kunal-Khemu-finally-opens-up-about-his-divorce-rumours/eventshow/51863871.cmsComing as a good news for all the anxious readers, all's well between Soha Ali Khan and her husband, actor Kunal Khemu.
The two were recently in the news for alleged trouble in their marriage.
Kunal took to his Twitter handle to put an end to all the speculations and slam the media.
He tweeted, “What!!
Why is my marriage in trouble??
Why am I heading for a divorce?
Am I in a different reality or the people reporting this nonsense.” Not only this, he also shared the link to a news report with the tweet inspired from Salman Khan’s dialogue, “Ek baar jo maine commitment de di toh phir mae PRESS ki Bhi nahi sunnta!” Well, that certainly does comes as a breather, considering the number of heartbreaks and divorces in B-Town this year.On the other hand, check out why Ranveer Singh got miffed with the media and even refused to pose for the lens...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/Ranveer-Singh-miffed-with-photographers-refuses-to-pose/eventshow/51453982.cmsRanveer Singh is one of the few Bollywood superstars who are forever ready to pose for the shutterbugs.
In fact, the ‘Bajirao Mastani’ star doesn’t even shy away from taking questions on his personal life head on.
So it came as surprise to us when we heard that the quirky actor was, for once, very mad at the paparazzi.
As per a report on Mid-Day.com, the actor recently got upset at some press photographers for trying to snap him without his permission.
The report also mentions that it seemed Ranveer didn’t want pictures from that particular shoot to be leaked out.
However, his spokesperson was quoted in the same report as blaming Ranveer’s not-so-friendly attitude to his hectic schedule that prevented him from posing for the photographers.While Ranveer made his stance towards the media very obvious, Hrithik Roshan too, recently took a dig at the fourth pillar of democracy, though indirectly.
Move on to the next slide to know more about it…
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/Did-Hrithik-Roshan-take-a-dig-at-the-media/eventshow/51439727.cmsThe entire Hrithik Roshan-Kangana Ranaut affair has got murkier in a way nobody could have imagined.
From Kangana alleging Hrithik of hacking into her email account to the actor’s startling ‘revelations’ about the ‘Queen’ star allegedly suffering from Asperger’s Syndrome, we have seen it all.
However, it seems Hrithik is in no mood to remain quite.
In a series of recent tweets, the ‘Krrish’ actor has posted a picture of him walking heroically with a group of people.
But it’s the second tweet that has made heads turn.
Hrithik has posted a selfie clicked in a gym and captioned it, “Stop writing rubbish.
Go workout.” Could he be referring to the media?
Well, our guess is as good as yours.Hrithik isn’t the only one to have taken a dig at the media, others have done so too.
Move on to read about other celebs who slammed the media in the past…
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/When-Shabana-Azmi-got-angry-at-the-media/eventshow/50868204.cmsThese days, Shabana Azmi, along with her co-stars, is busy promoting her upcoming film, ‘Neerja’, which stars Sonam Kapoor in the lead.
During a media interaction, she was asked quite a few questions regarding her son, Farhan Akhtar and Adhuna’s divorce.
This didn’t go down well with the veteran actress who threatened to walk out of the interview if she was asked any more questions regarding the split.Click the following slide to know why Abhishek Bachchan got angry at press photographers…
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/Abhishek-Bachchan-scolds-photographers/eventshow/50532279.cmsFarah Khan threw a birthday brunch at her Andheri pad on January 9, 2016.
The event was a star-studded affair.
Many Bollywood celebrities including Sidharth Malhotra, Gauri Khan, Parineeti Chopra, Arjun Kapoor, Kriti Sanon, Tabu, Sushant Singh Rajput, Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Simi Garewal showed up to wish the choreographer-director.
Things looked perfect until Abhishek Bachchan got into a brawl with some of the photographers while making an exit from the event, reported Spotboye.com.
Stars usually slow down their cars for the shutterbugs but Abhishek’s driver chose to speedup instead.
Junior Bachchan even shouted at the lensmen to not click him.
One of the photographers jumped in front of his vehicle and was saved merely by a whisker.
Abhishek singled him out and said that he should not come in front of his car, otherwise he will get hurt.
The ‘Dhoom 3’ actor is usually very warm with the media but looks like Abhishek was not in the best of his mood.Read on to find out which actress got furious at an interview published in a magazine, which she claims was fake...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/eventshow/49991558.cms What made Tamannaah Bhatia lose her cool?
Baahubali: The Beginning actress, Tamannaah Bhatia, recently took to social networking site, Twitter, to vent out her frustration over a magazine interview which she apparently never gave, reported Missmalini.com.
The magazine, which is quite popular down South, carried an interview of the actress which she alleged was fake and not hers.
She further added that she was tired of clarifying such fake interviews.
Let's take a look at what ticked the otherwise calm Big B off...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/eventshow/47553694.cmsThe second teaser of Amitabh Bachchan and Farhan
Akhtar-starrer Wazir is out and has been well received by the audience
and industry insiders.
On the promotional event of the film, which was held on
the 42nd marriage anniversary of Amitabh and Jaya Bachchan, the
superstar was asked that how many times had he thought of the popular saying, ‘Shadi
ka laddoo jo khaye wo pacchtaye, jo na khaye wo pachhtaye’ during his 42
years of marriage.
Instead of giving a straight answer, Amitabh
cross-questioned the journalist asking him how sweet was his laddoo .
The
journalist further asked Big B about his experience of being married for 42
years, which made him say, “Isko kaun laya yaar idhar?” (Who brought him
here?
)Read on to find out what made Alia Bhatt lose her cool in front of the media...
/when-celebs-slammed-the-media/eventshow/46410263.cmsAccording to a report on
Bollywoodlife.com, Alia Bhatt slammed a reporter on being asked about her
relationship with Siddharth Malhotra.
At the 7th Mirchi Music Awards, the 2
States actress apparently lost her cool when a reporter referred to her
last outing with Sid at Coke Studio, the report stated.
Without giving any
clear answer, she shot back the same question at the reporter instead, asking
her what she will be doing the following night and with whom at home, the
report further stated.
This is not the first time when Alia is in news for her
link-up with Siddharth.
But the actress has always remained tight-lipped on the
topic.
Read on to know what made Irrfan
Khan walk out of an interview...