Looks like President Barack Obama had to work pretty hard to romance first lady Michelle Obama !
In the trailer for the new indie film Southside With You -- which chronicles the epic 1989 first date between Barack and Michelle across Chicago's South Side -- the first lady repeatedly resists the future president's famous charm .
The two met when, after law school, Michelle worked as an associate at a law firm, and Barack was a summer intern whom she was assigned to as an adviser.
"This is not a date," Michelle (played by Tika Sumpter) says when Barack (played by Parker Sawyers) asks her to "swing by the art center" and grab a bite to eat before heading to a community meeting.
"How's it going to look if I start dating the first cute black guy who walks through the firm's doors?
It would be tacky."
"You think I'm cute?"
Barack asks.
"I didn't say that," Michelle sassily snaps back.
Still, it's clear the future power couple has an undeniable -- and adorable -- chemistry, and both have the same aspirations.
"I wonder if I could write books, or hold a position of influence in civil rights," Barack ponders, when Michelle says she "just wants do more."
"Politics?"
Michelle then prompts.
... And we all know how that turned out.
Barack and Michelle are now, of course, happily married with two teenage daughters -- 17-year-old Malia and 14-year-old Sasha.
ET caught up with Michelle last month, when she talked about raising their children to be as "normal" as possible.
"We generally don't include the girls [in official events].
We tried to normalize their lives as much as possible," Michelle said at the White House's annual Easter Egg Roll.
"A lot of this stuff we do, they're like regular kids -- they're running in the opposite direction of what we do.
They are not here now, they are running.
They're trying to hang with their friends."
She also dished on the hilarious picture of Malia giving Sasha a thumbs-up sign while her little sister chatted up Deadpool star Ryan Reynolds at their first State Dinner in March!
"Sister love," Michelle laughed.
Watch the cute moment below:
Playing See Barack and Michelle Obama Go on Their Romantic First Date in 'Southside With You'