Chloë Grace Moretz.
(Photo: Steven Pan, 'Glamour')
Say hello to the new neighbor.
Chloë Grace Moretz, who stars in the upcoming Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising (out May 20), fronts the May 2016 issue of Glamour and, in a wide-ranging interview, offers fans a rare interior look at her life, opening up about her fierce love of subversive roles, her burgeoning understanding of feminism, her exchange with one woman whose feminism just happens to look different than hers, and the blow that forced her to hold that much tighter to her family.
Read below for highlights from the cover story, which you can access in its entirety here .
"With movies like Kick-Ass , Carrie , and Let Me In , I was able to push boundaries at a really young age.
… Now that I’m able to get projects funded, curate scripts, and make movies, it means a lot to me to go against gender norms.
My biggest thing now is making gender-equalizing movies, where you can put a male actor or a female actor in that role, and it would work the same way."
"(A few years ago) I was uneducated on the word ‘feminism’ because I wasn’t an adult in a lot of ways," she said.
"I hadn't dealt with the amount of adversity that I deal with now, especially in business.
I've traveled more.
I’ve been part of different cultures and (heard about) what it means to be a minority young woman in this country and other countries.
I've read more, experienced more.
It’s kind of an evolution.
So now, for me, feminism means equality for people of all genders, races, and economic situations.
But at the same time, I never really thought that feminism was about hating men; I was afraid that people would view me that way."
"I was uneducated on the word 'feminism' because I wasn’t an adult in a lot of ways.
"(Photo: Steven Pan, 'Glamour')
Back in March, Moretz was accused of slut-shaming Kardashian-West after she expressed her disapproval of the reality personality's virtually nude selfie and tweeted , "I truly hope you realize how important setting goals are for young women, teaching them we have so much more to offer than our bodies."
Moretz continued to defend her remarks , telling Glamour "that picture wasn’t linked to body confidence.
It wasn’t a #BodyConfidence or #LoveWhoYouAre.
It was done in a slightly voyeuristic light, which I felt was a little inappropriate for young women to see….
I would hate for young women to feel they need to post certain photos in order to gain likes, retweets, favorites, and male attention."
But, as Kardashian-West has previously stated, she is not a role model.
Except maybe when it comes to clapbacks.
The Keeping up with the Kardashians star later hit back at Moretz, tweeting , "Let’s all welcome @ChloeGMoretz to twitter, since no one knows who she is.
Your Nylon cover is cute, boo. "
Moretz shares that she laughed and took the tweet in stride, and she even complimented Kardashian-West on her follow-up letter , in which the reality TV maven wrote, "I’m empowered by my body.
I’m empowered by my sexuality."
" I think that was interesting," Moretz told Glamour .
"I wish that it had come out earlier.
It was a great message; it was just a little late."
Moretz has previously shared that her father left when she was 12.
But while the blow "rocked" her family, she shares it also "made us a lot tighter."
As a case in point, the actress opened up about a time where her family was ready to fight in defense of her two gay brothers.
They were at a bar post-skiing when a group of men used a slur in reference to Moretz's brothers.
"I was like, 'What did you say?'
My two straight brothers bucked up too.
I was like, 'Do you want to say it again?'
They were like, 'No, it’s all good.'
I'm the type of person who will start swinging if you offend my family."
And as for her father?
While Moretz says she doesn't think she will find a way to forgive, she does know this much: "My forgiveness is that I’m living my life."
Moretz at the 2016 Met Gala.
(Photo: Dimitrios Kambouris, Getty Images)
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/26TGxn4
Most Popular Here's why you will never see Gwyneth Paltrow in Uggs 81 Shares
Kim K. kisses 'Queen' Naomi Campbell at book signing Why Caitriona Balfe's 'Outlander' gown made her feel like a 'massive truck' 302 Shares
Kate Upton announces engagement at Met Gala 6.0k Shares
Steven Tyler remembers Prince: 'He's a phenomenon' 492 Shares
Drake's 'Views': 6 songs you need to hear off his new album 2.5k Shares