Abundance of talent, complete dedication and hard work has seen Monali Thakur progress by leaps and bounds in singing and acting.
Winning the prestigious National Award for the Best Female Playback Singer for the song “Moh Moh Ke Dhaage” from “Dum Lagake Haisha” and the Filmfare Award for “Sawar Loon” in “Lootera” are proof of her capability.
Edited excerpts from the interview:
On winning the National Award
I had to wait for quite a few years to let people see the other side of my music.
I am a trained Patiala gharana thumri singer and I learnt other genres like Hip Hop and R&B by listening to songs from these genres.
It’s actually the attitude that sets these songs apart.
By singing songs from various genres, I am able to show my versatility to the world.
Usually those competing in reality shows are not successful.
You are an exception.
Also tell us who inspired you.
Till the time you nurture your art, you grow as a musician and as a person.
You have to make sure that the growth in your personality is also reflected in your art.
By continuing to do the work that excites you, you will keep going up no matter what people say.
That's how I beat all odds, by believing in myself.
There is a struggle involved in every profession you can think of but if you let that set you back then you won't be able to achieve anything in life.
One inspiration for me is my Guruji, late Pandit Jagdish Prasad ji, who also happens to be my favourite singer.
Apart from him, my parents who have always loved me selflessly and helped me to keep going.
On her acting in “Lakshmi” and “Mango”
“Lakshmi” was a very hard hitting story on an equally strong subject.
It was a rather life changing experience for me because of what it was about.
We often hear about human trafficking, but we cannot empathise with the victims and thus are unable to comprehend their sufferings.
After the film, I changed as a person as it made me realise how lucky I am for the life I have.
It also left me feeling a little helpless as I realized how little I am contributing for the victims.
As an actor, the experience was wonderful as Nagesh sir is a very sorted director and editor.
As for “Mango”, I have finished shooting for it and I don't know when it is going to be released.
It was a little disheartening since I was waiting for its release and that never happened.
I am hoping that it won't be a setback for my career as I am working on a lot of other things.
Trained in Indian classical music, you render Bollywood hits.
How do you adapt?
Music is music.
It may take different forms but it is all interrelated.
Classical music is definitely relatively difficult for everyone to comprehend.
It actually helps you to be swift and gives you a base that helps in performing all the other genres.
No matter what form of music you pursue, you have to remember that the most important component is your soul.
After singing “Chham Chham” in “Baaghi” do think you found your niche?
Most importantly, right now I am working on my singles.
That’s probably the most exciting thing that I can do for myself.
Apart from that, I am supposed to do another short film and I’ll work my way up from there hoping for the best.