As the auto veers into the serene Srinagar Colony, I’m not really sure if I should ask for the house of Meena, or her daughter, Nainika, who’s become a celebrity of sorts after her role in Theri .
Before long, I find myself sitting with Meena in her spacious house.
Nainika’s afternoon siesta is cut short, thanks to this interview.
“Is this for Mother’s Day?” asks Meena, rhetorically.
Nainika has had a dream start, much like you did as a child actress.
Do you see her turning into a heroine, like you?
Your guess is as good as mine.
I am keen that she pursues her education.
She is in UKG now, and it’s the best time to enjoy childhood.
Movies are hard work, and at her age, it is unfair to expect her to take on too much.
I agreed to Theri as it depicted the bond between a father and daughter.
We cannot expect a similar script every time.
For now, she will simply focus on being a five-year-old.
Did you expect Nainika to do as well she did in Theri ?
My confidence went up after she did her first scene.
She says, “Four times four is 16,” in that scene, and was applauded by Vijay himself.
The whole unit went up in applause after he gave everybody the thumbs-up sign.
The song ‘Eena Meena Deeka’ has become quite popular.
It was Atlee’s idea to shoot this song first, even before she said her first lines.
The song helped Nainika bond with Vijay, who to his credit was patient enough to wait for her to get the hang of it all.
The song is a highlight in the film, and sets the mood and the pace.
What were the challenges?
Well, a child of her age is prone to mood swings.
She is too young to realise that a scene has to be shot from different angles.
But Atlee, who is immensely patient, helped a lot, and this helped Nainika do as well as she did.
But the toughest part of the whole process was the dubbing.
She was stuck in a room for long hours and the dialogues had to sound right.
Nainika’s style naturally lent itself to the character’s innocence.
I’m proud of her.
She has done everything for this film, from shooting in the night to dubbing for long hours.
I never expected this.
Being a professional, I know the difficulty of it all.
Surely, she’s flooded with acting offers now?
To be honest, not really.
So, once the Theri fever subsides, she will return to her books and gadgets.
Did this whole process encourage you to consider a comeback?
What comeback?
I haven’t even retired.
I have kept myself busy with television serials, reality shows and game shows.
I have enjoyed exploring all these avenues.
I refused a number of offers that came during the shooting of Theri .
I will be shortly working on a Malayalam film with Mohanlal; the shoot is set to begin in June.
While I’d love to continue my career, Nainika is my priority.
For me to consider leaving her for a brief period and act in films, the character needs to be worth it.
Does Nainika have anything to add to this conversation?
( With encouragement from Meena, Nainika turns my attention to a few objects near her ) Vijay uncle gave me this watch.
( She goes on to show me other gifts he gave her, including a pink colour box, chocolates, and a puzzle. )
Do you remember your first scene?
Four times four is 16 and not 17!