Swara Bhaskar’s conviction to portray the challenging role of a mother in 'Nil Battey Sannata' so early in her career has certainly paid rich dividends.
TNN | May 12, 2016, 02.38 PM ISTSwara Bhaskar (BCCL)Swara Bhaskar's conviction to portray the challenging role of a mother in 'Nil Battey Sannata' so early in her career has certainly paid rich dividends.
Little did the versatile actress know that her impeccable performance in the family entertainer would set the box office cash registers ringing!
Aamir Khan calls 'Nil Battey Sannata' inspiring, uplifting Superstar Aamir Khan is bowled over by the trailer of Swara Bhaskar-starrer relationship drama 'Nil Battey Sannata'.
Swara, who's already riding high on the success of movies including 'Tanu Weds Manu Returns' and 'Prem Ratan Dhan Payo' is elated that her latest release, 'Nil Battey Sannata' has done well at the box office despite having a limited release of 350 screens only.
Swara's B-town friends, film critics and trade pundits praised her performance and the heartwarming narrative of a mother and her daughter.
Interestingly, the film is still running in cinemas in its third week!
In fact, some shows have still reported packed houses.This Aanand L Rai's family entertainer, which was high on content, stood on its own despite big releases including 'Jungle Book' and 'Baaghi'.
The satellite rights of 'Nil Battey Sannata' have been sold to a leading movie channel for an impressive amount.
It's learnt that Uttar Pradesh government has granted the movie Rs 2 crore subsidy for being shot entirely in Uttar Pradesh and being a socially relevant film.Reportedly, Netflix and Eros Now are also keen in acquiring the online rights of the film as well.
The versatile and successful actress has an interesting line up of films releasing this year including 'Anaarkali Aaraawaali' in which she will surprise the audience and her fans once again, as she plays the title role of Anaarkali, a local singer of live performances of lewd and double-meaning songs.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia