After spending most of the season at the Pineview Institute being treated for dissociative identity disorder, Norman Bates (Freddie Highmore) finally returned home in last week’s episode of A&E’s Bates Motel , “Unfaithful.” Except it wasn’t exactly the homecoming he had hoped for, given his mother Norma’s (Vera Farmiga) split affection for her new husband Romero (Nestor Carbonell), and Dylan’s (Max Thieriot) relationship with Emma (Olivia Cooke).
In Monday’s penultimate episode of the season, the effects of Norman returning home to such circumstances are dire at best, as he works to rid Romero from his and his mother’s lives and reclaim her love all for himself.
It’s a dangerous situation for everyone involved, especially the mother-son duo that viewers have followed for four seasons now.
“The critical dilemma of the season was, would Norman stay in treatment and where would that lead?” co-showrunner Carlton Cuse previews.
“We thought it was fascinating that Norman would outwit the system and find a way to get himself home.
He ultimately plays on Norma’s deep love and connectivity to him and the fact that she ultimately has to kind of give into Norman and the consequences of that were something that seemed really dramatic.”
That drama begins to snowball into a two-part, two-week finale event that will lead the series into its already ordered fifth and final season.
“We’re supposed to be together, aren’t we Norman?” Norma asks her son in the video preview above.
“Yes we are Mother, forever,” Norman responds, looking lovingly at Norma before the clip flashes to a frenzy of characters trying to convince Norma how dangerous her son actually is.
It all ends with Norman seemingly digging something outside the motel — a grave, perhaps?
“There are lots of changes in points of view and in some cases unreliable narration in our show, and we felt like the end of the episode nine was kind of shocking and ambiguous,” fellow co-showrunner Kerry Ehrin adds.
“The finale in a way becomes the deciphering of the events of episode nine.”
Bates Motel begins its final two-episode countdown on Monday at 9 p.m. on A&E.
Thoughts?
Sound off in the comments below.
Bates Motel May 09, 2016
8:30am PT by
Amber Dowling
Newly back from Pineview Institute, Norman works to get rid of Romero in new preview clip for the final two episodes of season four.