Updated: May 4, 2016 17:11 IST
Bala Rayudu’s concert, last week at Hanuman Temple premises in Musheerabad was one of her best presentations.
She was accompanied by Anil Kumar on violin and Ramakrishna on mridangam.
Bala opened her concert with Navaragamalika varnam presented in two speeds that exercised her well and set her tone and spirit in right place and the next number traditional Vatapi Ganapathim was a spirited presentation in the sense that she concentrated on the bhakti element of the sahitya in praise of Vinayaka.
She presented swarakalpana too that kept to its devotional mood of the number.
The real spirit of the kirtana expression could be noticed when she chose to present a popular number Seethamma Mayamma in Vasantha in Roopaka talam.
This
Thyagaraja number Teliyaleru Rama in Dhenuka too was simple kirtana presentation but her rendition style enhanced sahitya appeal.
Later she chose raga Asaveri and expanded it well into a reasonable span.
The composition she chose in this was one of highly dramatic numbers in Thyagaraja’s life Rara Maaintidaka .
Nagumomu in Abheri is equally dramatic number that stands out as one the most impressive numbers of Thyagaraja even chosen by dancers to present.
Bala gave brief of the raga and then when it came to expression of rich sahitya she succeeded getting the gist out of the lyric.
She then presented swarakalpana too to enrich the number.
So was the next number Marugelara O Raghava in Jayantasri.
This gave space for the main number Bantureeti Koluvuveeyavayya in Hamsanadam that’s he treated with care and concentration on shitya element.
With a brief ragalapana she went for the presentation of the kriti effectively with right expression of Sahitya.
This was further expanded in neraval she presented taking the pallavi line.
The swarakalpana was a bit expansive and she paid greater attention to give it an apt finish.
The later part of Bala’s concert had light classical numbers Annamacharya kirtana Muddugare Yasoda in Kurinji, Paluke Bangaramayena of Ramadasu in Anandabhairavi and ended her show with tillana in Brindavani.
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.
close Recent Article in Friday Review