Amid her highly publicized family drama , Sharon Osbourne still feels "so much love."
The 63-year-old TV personality has avoided social media ever since news broke that she had called it quits with husband Ozzy Osbourne after nearly 34 years of marriage .
After taking a well-deserved " personal day ," she returned to co-host The Talk on Tuesday, where she opened up about how she's been dealing with the situation.
"I've been avoiding looking at any pictures, reading anything," she explained.
"I know what's going on.
I don't need to read about it and see about it because it's like putting salt on a wound.
I don't need to."
But one day later, she expressed different thoughts after speaking with her "girls," co-hosts Julie Chen, Sara Gilbert, Sheryl Underwood and Aisha Tyler.
"Yesterday, I said that I haven't looked at any articles or anything that have been written about my husband and I and the girls here said I have to go on social media and see and have a look," Osbourne revealed.
"I was just overwhelmed by the reaction and so much love and it's just amazing," she added.
"Of course again, my family here.
My girls here -- I'm just uplifted and again, thank you all so very, very much."
During Tuesday's chat , Osbourne sipped on lemonade, seemingly confirming that the reports about Ozzy allegedly cheating on her with a hairstylist were true.
The reference, of course, comes from Beyoncé’s latest visual album, Lemonade , which features themes of infidelity .
"I honestly am empowered, and I have this inner strength, and I'm like, 'Right, OK, what's next?
I can handle this,'" Sharon stated.
"I honestly at this point today, have no idea what I'm going to be doing for the rest of my life," she later added, getting a little emotional.
"I don't know where I'm going, who I'm going with, and I just need time to think, and really think about myself -- about what do I really want for the rest of my life because this is, like, getting to the last chapter of this book.”
"I really want to think about it carefully, about where I want to go," she continued.
"Because I'm 63 years of age and I can't keep living like this."
The estranged couple has three children together -- Aimee, 32, Kelly, 31, and Jack, 30.
While Kelly has yet to officially address the situation, she did make her own Lemonade reference via Instagram on Tuesday.
"Guess who’s turning [lemon]'s into #lemonade?"
she captioned a pic of herself, which showed her sticking out her tongue and holding a lemon over her eye.
A source told ET on Monday that Ozzy had been having an alleged affair with celebrity hair stylist Michelle Pugh , who works at Meche, an upscale salon in Beverly Hills, California.
The 67-year-old Black Sabbath rocker was one of her clients.
To hear more, watch the video below.
Playing Sharon Osbourne Thanks Fans for Support After Split From Ozzy, Says She's 'Overwhelmed by the Reaction'