 
EXCLUSIVE!
Ozzy Osbourne: Ex Sharon Osbourne Is Still the Boss
Presented By &
The pair, who have been together for 33 years , reunited at the Los Angeles Palladium for a press conference on Thursday where Sharon supported Ozzy by announcing the merging of Ozzfest and Slipknot 's Knotfest, and when the rock star sat down with E!
News' Will Marfuggi , he explained that Sharon is still taking the lead when it comes to his career.
"Our wives have been very important to us," Ozzy said of Sharon's support today, and when asked if she's "still the boss," Osbourne replied, "Oh, yeah."
As for whether she'll continue to run his career, Ozzy told us, "Oh yeah, I hope so."
Kevin Winter/Getty Images
Sharon felt bittersweet about the final event recalling, "My kids grew up going to Ozzfest, 20 years it's been around so I have a very soft spot in my heart for Ozzfest."
As for what she wants to see happen next with Ozzy, The Talk host told us, "I'd want to see him go out and do his own farewell tour with his own music, because they are two totally different music genres, really.
He's got his own fans and [Black] Sabbath , they've got their own fans, so I would like to see him go out and say farewell to his fans."
After welcoming Ozzy, Geezer Butler and Slipknot's Clown and Corey Taylor , she explained, "Twenty years ago, we realized there was no one supporting music the way these guys do."
Thus, in honor of the 20th anniversary of Ozzfest, she continued, "We decided, why not merge the two fests together.
Ozzfest meets Knotfest."
The event will include bands like: Black Sabbath, Disturbed , Megadeth , Opeth , Black Label Society , Huntress , Death Cross , Municipal Waste , Kataklysm , Slayer and more.
Sharon concluded the conference, saying, "Thank you all for coming out for us, and see you all in San Bernardino...Or else."
Ozzy was the first to break his silence, commenting on speculation that they are divorcing due to his drug use.
"I have been sober for three and a quarter years," Ozzy shared with E!
News exclusively.
"I have not touched drugs or alcohol in that time.
Any reports that I am not sober are completely inaccurate."
Kevin Winter/Getty Images
"It's right for me.
I have no idea what I am going to be doing for the rest of my life.
I don't know where I am going, who I'm going with and I just need time to think and really think about myself and what I really want for the rest of my life because this is really like getting to the last chapter of the book and I really want to think about it very carefully where I want to go."
She concluded, "I am 63 years of age and I can't keep living like this."