Avinash LohanaAfter ‘Bajirao Mastani,’ the filmmaker to direct another period drama with the story of Alauddin Khilji and the queen of Mewar
| May 9, 2016, 09.55 AM ISTAfter the success of 'Bajirao Mastani' which opened last December and featured Ranveer Singh, Deepika Padukone and Priyanka Chopra, Sanjay Leela Bhansali is ready to helm another period drama, and this time, it's the turn of the anti-hero.
While speculations have been rife about several subjects including a 'Khal Nayak' remake, Mirror has learnt that the 53-year-old filmmaker's next narrates the story of Alauddin Khilji, the second ruler of the Khilji dynasty, and his obsessive love for the queen of Mewar, Padmavati, renowned for her beauty, intellect and courage.Tentatively titled 'Padmavati,' the film will be written by Prakash Kapadia who has earlier collaborated with Sanjay on 'Devdas,' 'Black,' 'Saawariya' and the recent 'Bajirao Mastani.'
"It's a very interesting story and will release on December 15, 2017," reveals a source close to the development.
Legend has it that Alauddin heard of the unparalleled beauty of the wife of the King of Mewar and was eager to see her in person.
Even though it was forbidden for a Hindu queen, Ratan Singh persuaded his wife to let the Sultan see her once.
Alauddin was so dazzled by Padmavati's beauty that he resolved to induct her into his harem, ordering his army to invade the kingdom.
Even though outnumbered, Ratan Singh declared that the Rajputs would fight till the last man to protect their honour.
When appraised of the developments Padmavati decided to commit jauhar.
As their men-folk marched towards a lost war, a huge pyre was lit and following their queen, the women of Mewar jumped into the flames.
In 2008 Sanjay had directed an opera-ballad titled 'Padmavati,' soon after the release of 'Saawariya,' which was performed at Paris's prestigious opera house, Theatre du Chatelet, to a standing ovation.
The overwhelming response to it was heartening and he returned home happy and rejuvenated.
For the last four months, the National Award-winning filmmaker had been debating on which subject to touch on next.
Speaking to Mirror (November 27, 2015) he had admitted he has to make another 25 films, including six dream projects, in this lifetime.
"I've made two - 'Black' and 'Bajirao Mastani' - four remain.
I don't want to run out of time.
I have to make them before I quit or I'll have to be born again which I wouldn't want," he had said, adding that he will be producing two-three films this year, including sister Bela Sehgal's directorial, 'Gustakhiyan,' a biopic on poet-lyricist Sahir Ludhianvi which could end with his famous verse 'Kabhi kabhi mere dil mein khayal aata hai,' a musical love story which will launch Vinod Khanna's son Sakshi and casting director Mukesh Chhabra, and his next directorial which will roll in July.The filmmaker's official spokesperson confirmed that the project is on and casting is in progress.
Listen to Bajirao Mastani songs on Gaana.com Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia