Page Six is moving from the presses to the small screen.
The longtime New York Post gossipcolumn is being turned into a daily television show launching this summer, it was announced Wednesday.
Page Six TV will feature a diverse panel of experts and insiders delivering gossip and news about entertainment, culture, media, finance, real estate and politics.
The series will feature panelist and contributors who will compete each evening to headline "The Page" by breaking exclusive news, advancing a story, and providing irreverent and opinionated insight.
The series will also engage with the column's large social media by giving viewers the opportunity each morning to share their personal opinions across platforms like Twitter and Facebook prior to the daily broadcast.
Beginning July 18 and running three weeks, the show will air Monday through Friday as part of a three-week preview on select Fox television stations across the country, including Los Angeles and New York.
Like the column and the publication from which it hails, the half-hour show will be shot and produced in New York City.
The program hails from Endemol Shine North America.
In addition to the Page Six editorial team, which will appear in select episodes and segments, producers are still finalizing the show's core cast.
“ Page Six has been driving the conversation for decades, and in New York it's everyone's first read, whether in the paper or online" said Jesse Angelo, publisher of the New York Post.
"With Page Six TV , we'll explore a new medium and grow our reach.
It will be a true New York Post product - smart, funny, biting and entertaining, covering the people and topics that make this city, and the world, tick."
For Fox, the limited summer preview has been a tried-and-true strategy.
Wendy Williams launched with a summer preview before getting a proper fall debut, as did Bethenny Frankel's daytime show, although it only lasted one seasons.
Other summer previews have been less successful, however, such as Kris Jenner's short-lived talk show, which was not picked up after a summer preview in 2013.
“We’re constantly looking for fresh, day and date strip programming," Fox Television Stations' senior vp of programming, Frank Cicha, said. "
Page Six has always had its own point of view, and we expect that to translate very well to the TV show.”
Added Endemol Shine North America co-CEOs Charlie Corwin and Cris Abrego: “We’ve been talking with Jesse and the team at the NY Post for some time now about bringing Page Six ’s iconic brand and expertise to TV and we’re thrilled that the Fox Television Stations are set to offer a preview this summer of what’s to come. "
Page Six is the latest celebrity news outlet to get the small screen treatment.
TMZ on TV launched in 2007 and is recently launched a spinoff, TMZ Sports , on Fox Sports' FS1 late last year.
Reelz Channel also just announced that a new National Enquirer series covering some of the publication's biggest stories and Hollywood's biggest mysteries, will debut later this month.
May 11, 2016
9:00am PT by
Kate Stanhope
Following in the footsteps of TMZ's successful daily show, 'Page Six TV' will get a three-week preview on Fox stations this summer.