The 26-year-old actress asked her fans to wish her luck via Twitter on Thursday.
Hayden Panettiere has no shame admitting that her struggle with postpartum depression has been difficult.
The Nashville star took to Twitter on Thursday to share a personal note about her ongoing battle with the condition, revealing she often feels "stuck."
"The postpartum depression I have been experiencing has impacted every aspect of my life," she explained.
"Rather than stay stuck due to unhealthy coping mechanisms I have chosen to take time to reflect holistically on my health and life.
Wish me luck!"
Her tweet was posted around the time ABC canceled country music drama, Nashville , after four seasons.
Panettiere took a leave of absence from the series earlier this season to seek treatment for postpartum depression.
"I was always so terrified that people weren't going to accept me," Panettiere told Yahoo Style in March.
"I finally just went [to rehab], 'I'm tired of living afraid.
I'm tired of living in fear of what people are going to think, so, you know, I'm just going to put it all out there on the table and I'm not going to worry about the judgment.'"
The 26-year-old actress has been vocal about her condition ever since she and fiancée Wladimir Klitschko welcomed their first child together, daughter Kaya , in December 2014.
Last September, Panettiere was a guest on Live!
with Kelly and Michael where she got candid about the struggle that she and many new mothers face.
"There's a lot of misunderstanding -- there's a lot of people out there that think that it's not real, that it's not true, that it's something that's made up in their minds, that 'Oh, it's hormones.'
They brush it off," she said.
"It's something that’s completely uncontrollable.
It's really painful and it's really scary and women need a lot of support."
Oddly enough, Panettiere's character on Nashville also struggled with the condition, which actually helped her understand how to handle it better in real life.
"What I thought postpartum was, was wanting to cause your child harm," she told ET last August.
"You know, that really severe version of postpartum.
Now, having had a child, I've realized that it can be on quite a large spectrum, and the symptoms don't have to be as in your face and obvious."
Photo: Getty Images