Ranveer, Salman in 'Dhoom Reloaded'
Ranveer, Salman in 'Dhoom Reloaded'
Ranbir-Alia superhero film still on track
Sunil Shetty's son prepares for B-town debut
Nushrat Bharucha is excited about her ad film with Dibakar Banerjee
Neerja director to adapt a Dutch series?
Alia Bhatt and Parineeti Chopra share their love for ice-cream
Making it Big: Book Launch Raman Raghav 2.0: Trailer Celebs attend store launch JDIFT: Fashion Show Kal Penn’s reception AC/DC’s concert Celebs at a party Sunday brunch
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Actress Parineeti Chopra is happy she has begun to shoot for the upcoming film 'Meri Pyaari Bindu' in the City of Joy.
IANS | May 12, 2016, 02.34 PM ISTParineeti Chopra
Actress Parineeti Chopra is happy she has begun to shoot for the upcoming film 'Meri Pyaari Bindu' in the City of Joy.
Parineeti, last seen on screen in Shaad Ali-directed 'Kill Dil', says her co-star Ayushmann Khurrana will join the set soon.
"It all begins in the City of Joy!
Bindu's favourite Abhimanyu will be here soon.
Watch out for Ayushmann Khurrana.
'Meri Pyaari Bindu'," Parineeti tweeted on Thursday.
Alia Bhatt and Parineeti Chopra share their love for ice-cream Both Alia Bhatt and Parineeti Chopra were recently seen wearing ice cream on their outfits.
The 'Ishaqzaade' star will be seen essaying the character of an aspiring singer in the Yash Raj Films movie and she will also croon a number for it.
Ayushmann will be seen essaying the character of an author named Abhimanyu Roy, and flaunts a bearded look for it. ''
'Meri Pyaari Bindu Parineeti Chopra I love it when the Bindu in you says such things," Ayushmann tweeted.
Set in Kolkata, the film is directed by debutant Akshay Roy and is a Maneesh Sharma production.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia