Dolly Parton is returning to NBC's schedule just in time for the holidays.
The network on Wednesday announced a sequel to the country singer's successful 2015 TV movie, Coat of Many Colors , for a December launch.
Dolly Parton's Christmas Coat of Many Colors: A Circle of Love will bring back the cast from the first film, which includes Jennifer Nettles, Ricky Schroder, Gerald McRaney and Alyvia Alyn Lind as young Dolly Parton.
The telepic centers on the next chapter of Parton's life as an unexpected blizzard threatens the Parton family, while at the same time Dolly’s father (and his kids) make sacrifices to raise enough money to finally buy his loving wife the wedding ring he could never afford to give her.
Meanwhile, an important person in little Dolly’s life begins to see that her amazing voice and musical gift might just be made for something bigger than rural Tennessee.
Director Stephen Herek also will return to direct the project, with a script written by Pamela K. Long.
Long will executive produce with Sam Haskell and Parton.
Circle of Love hails from Magnolia Hill Entertainment and Dixie Pixie Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television.
More castmembers are expected to be announced at a later date.
“It’s no secret that everyone loves Dolly Parton and the response to our first movie was overwhelming, both in terms of the size of the audience and outpouring of love for a film with family values and faith,” NBC Entertainment chairman Robert Greenblatt said in a statement.
“So it felt like a no-brainer to bring this talented cast back together and tell another compelling holiday story culled from Dolly’s own life growing up in the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee.
Her spirit and belief in God — and her music — will infuse this movie with the true spirit of Dolly Parton.”
Added Parton: “I was so overwhelmed and touched by how many people watched Coat of Many Colors and their reaction to it.
The song " Coat of Many Colors,' of course, has always been my favorite and has touched so many people through the years, especially me.
It is a true story from a very special time in my childhood.
I am so happy to share this story with the viewers and to say there is so much more to tell because mine truly has been a life of many colors.
I hope the viewers will fall in love all over again.”
The sequel is part of a deal Parton signed with NBC back in January 2015 allowing the network to develop a series of TV movies based on her songs and her life.
Back in August, while promoting the first film in the series and five months before its premiere, Parton announced that the second project would be based on her classic hit "Jolene."
The West Wing writer-producer John Sacret Young was attached to pen the project, which sources tell The Hollywood Reporter may be revisited at a later time.
May 11, 2016
10:28am PT by
Kate Stanhope
The next movie in the country singer's deal with NBC was supposed to be based on her hit "Jolene."