Written by Aaron Pereira | New Delhi |
Published:May 6, 2016 2:09 pm
Former PM Manmohan Singh during the Congress’s ‘Save Democracy’ march in New Delhi.
Also seen are Congress president Sonia Gandhi and MP Jyotiraditya Scindia.
Express Photo/Aaron Pereira Congress president Sonia Gandhi , vice-president Rahul Gandhi , and former prime minister Manmohan Singh courted arrest on Friday at the Parliament Street police station in New Delhi after they were disallowed from leading a ”Save Democracy’ rally to Parliament to highlight what they term as the “attack on democracy by the Narendra Modi government”.
In what appeared to be a breach of security, thousands of party workers and onlookers, broke through barricades and jostled with the former prime minister and the Congress party president — both of whom are SPG protectees — as they were being escorted from the rally towards the police station.
“How can they deny us permission to hold a peaceful rally?
We were marching towards Parliament in a peaceful manner,” Congress leader Sandeep Dikshit told The Indian Express .
Senior party leaders Mallikarjun Kharge as well as Janardhan Dwivedi later entered the police station in support of their party leadership.
Congress Rajya Sabha MP Renuka Chowdhury was seen climbing the gate to the police station, shouting slogans against the Narendra Modi-led BJP government.
As is the norm during Parliament sessions, Section 144 has been imposed around the area and no protest rallies are allowed in the high-security enclave except those at Jantar Mantar.
The Congress had a permission to hold a rally at nearby Jantar Mantar.
Speaking to The Indian Express , she said: “They are attacking democracy.
We will not let this happen… I am a citizen.
How can they deny me the right to enter the police station?
It is my right.”
The protest march — called to highlight what the Congress party terms as ‘Modi’s attack on democracy’ — saw thousands of party workers gather at Jantar Mantar, the country’s protest capital.
Chanting slogans against the Modi government as well as demanding that Rahul Gandhi take over as party president, the crowd swelled, and security officials — from the Delhi Police as well as CRPF — had a tough time.
As the speeches ended and it was time for the march, party workers walked alongside their party leadership towards Parliament but were disallowed, and consequently taken towards the police station, where they courted arrest.
Congress MP Renuka Chowdhury climbs the gates at Parliament Street police station in New Delhi.
Express Photo/Aaron Pereira ‘Won’t allow democracy to be murdered’
At a time when the Congress is being hit on multiple fronts by the Union government — be it President’s Rule in Uttarakhand to the alleged scam in the AgustaWestland deal, the party urged its workers to go back to the people highlighting how the Modi government is covering up its failures by attacking them with ‘unsubstantiated’ allegations.
Targeting the RSS, Sonia said: “We have to send a message so strong that people sitting in Raisina Hill and Nagpur sit up and listen.”
“Do not try to frighten us.
Life has taught me to fight on,” Sonia said, adding that the ‘achche din’ of the BJP was over.
Tragetting the government for allegedly dislodging their party’s government in Uttarakhand, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi said: “They dislodged elected governments in Arunachal Pradesh
and Uttarakhand.
They broke law and they keep on breaking it.
This is a democratic country.
It belongs to everyone and not to a single individual… we will fight for democracy.”
Others who spoke at the rally included party leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge and Jyotiraditya Scindia.
Congress president Sonia Gandhi addressing the rally at Jantar Mantar, New Delhi.
Express Photo/Aaron Pereira Protest shifts to Parliament
Denied permission, Congress MPs returned to Parliament and stormed the well of Rajya Sabha, forcing the chair to adjourn the session.
“ Modi teri tanaashahi nahi chalegi (won’t allow Modi’s autocratic rule).” As the House resumed at 12 pm, deputy leader of Opposition Anand Sharma told chairman Hamid Ansari that their party leadership had been arrested and it was an attack on democracy.
The government does not have a majority in the Upper House.
Congress party workers participating in the Save Demcoracy rally to Parliament.
Express Photo/Aaron Pereira© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd