It was captivating to watch expert performers of different classical dance forms of India improvise and present a thillana based on raga Desh at the end of a two-day Naatya Kousthubh Nrithyotsav dance fete in Kochi.
On the first day, the festival featured Bharatanatyam by Paris Lakshmi and Tanya Saxena from Delhi, Kuchipudi by Meenu Sudheesh and Mohiniyattam by Kalamandalam Kshemavathy.
Lakshmi enthralled spectators with her performance and choreography.
She danced with ease three numbers – a Shivasthuthi in Revathi, another piece in raga Gowla and a thillana, her own composition in raga Tilak.
Meenu Sudeesh, a disciple of Anupama Mohan, presented ‘Ardhanareeswaran’, choreographed by Anupama.
But it was Tanya Saxena who stole the show on the first day.
Graceful movements, exquisite expressions and amazing footwork were the highlights of Tanya’s performance.
She brilliantly portrayed the story of Krishna’s childhood days with Yashodha.
Tanya showcased her skill throughout her performance.
The last performance on the first day was a Mohiniyattam recital by Kalamandalam Kshemavathy.
Accompanied by a live orchestra, Kshemavathay presented three items – ‘Devisthuthi’, ‘Devakivilapam’ and ‘Padaprathishta’, based on Sugathakumari’s poem by the same name.
On the second day, there were four performances: Kathak by Deepa Kartha, Kuchipudi by Rekha Sathish and Deepa Sasidharan from Bangalore, Ranjini Ganeshan Ramesh and Deksha Swaminathan Ramesh from Mumbai and Kuchipudi performance by Madhavi Namboodiri from Chennai.
Deepa Kartha came up with good footwork.
‘Madhurasakaram’, a Sanskrit composition in praise of Lord Krishna, and a Tarana were the other pieces.
Rekha and Deepa Sasidharan performed a Ganesha stuthi in Saveri raga, ‘Taruni Rugmini’ in Kalyani raga and a Tarangam in Ragamalika.
A jugalbandhi featured Ranjini and her daughter Deksha.
While Ranjini did Bharatanatyam, her daughter performed Kuchipudi.
They performed a long composition of Balamuralikrishna in raga Gambheera Natta.
The item was aptly titled ‘Parambarya Sangama’ (meeting of traditions).
The last performance was by Madhavi.
She presented ‘Rukmini Pravesadaru’, choreographed by Vempatti Chinnasatyam, an Ashtapadi and a thillana.
The fete was organised by Satyanjali Academy of Kuchipudi Dance, Ernakulam, in association with Kerala Fine Arts Society.