Amber Heard looked totally stunning at Monday’s Met Gala, but surprised some when she showed up without husband Johnny Depp on her arm.
Instead, the Aquaman star perfectly accessorized her silky high-slit Ralph Lauren gown with Kimball Hastings, Ralph Lauren’s head of PR, who dressed her for the event.
Photo: Splash News
Heard wasn’t the only starlet who flew solo at the gala, an understated theme of the evening seemed to be ladies letting their less fashion-forward men stay home in favor of taking a designer or stylist as their plus one.
Beyonce notably stepped out without her husband , Jay Z, or her wedding band, stunning the crowd in her Givenchy dress and letting a stylist worry about the details.
Photo: Getty Images
Oscar winner Alicia Vikander left boyfriend Michael Fassbender at home, instead opting to pose in her metallic Louis Vuitton dress with the fashion house’s creative director, Nicolas Ghesquiere.
Photo: Getty Images
Nicki Minaj’s boyfriend (fiance?
husband?
We can’t keep it straight. )
Meek Mill is technically on house arrest right now, but this probably wouldn’t be his scene anyway.
The rapper rolled with the Moschino gang on the Gala red carpet, posing alongside creative director Jeremy Scott in her sexy, strappy gown.
Photo: Getty Images
Cindy Crawford looked positively stunning in her silver-scaled Balmain dress, and posed with the brand’s creative director, Olivier Rousteing, though hubby Rande Gerber joined her for the after party.
Photo: Getty Images
After Deadpool star Ryan Reynolds looked devastatingly dapper at the White House reception for Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau back in March, we were hoping he’d rock the Met Gala carpet with wife Blake Lively.
However, Lively held things down just fine on her own, masking her growing baby bump in a gorgeous pink Burberry cape gown and posing alongside the company’s CEO and chief creative officer Christopher Bailey.
Photo: Getty Images
Playing Amber Heard Stunned at the Met Gala Without Husband Johnny Depp