For a city that loved its Parsi theatre so much that Hindi films had to wait, it is nothing short of an irony that theatre has often lagged well behind cinema in popularity stakes.
Yet for lovers of stage and street, theatre has always had its throb, its pulse.
The city made room for street theatre, then embraced Urdu theatre, a no mean feat both considering Delhi’s streets are not so mean as to arouse a poet nor are the residents really accustomed to the nuances of Urdu language.
Now, the same city which Zauq never wanted to leave is turning a new leaf.
Probably for the first time in living memory an Islamic play comes to New Delhi.
Now Islam and theatre may be incompatible in the eyes of the faithful but director F.S.
Sheerani is making an attempt to give the message of Karbala in a contemporary setting.
Rather appropriately titled “Karbal Katha”, the play not only brings to stage the martyrdom of Imam Husain and Hassan but also focussed on the modern innocent common man, victimised by the State, by the society.
Calling them the “modern-day Husain”, Sheerani promises that the play would not be a sermon.
Nor will it be an attempt at soft proselytisation.
“ ‘Karbal Katha’ is an attempt to expose the wrongs of the modern society.
It talks of migration, refugees, corruption and displacement.
Whether it is our own country or Iraq or Syria or other States, the play highlights the wrongs committed by man in the name of ideology.
Yes, we do talk of Karbala martyrdom which is a sensitive part of a Shia Muslim’s belief, but we have tried to send the larger message about the martyrdom to the world at large.
It is not a play for Muslims as the play has a huge canvas.” The play depicts the famed Battle of Karbala that took place in the second half of 7th Century between Imam Hussain and his handful of companions on the one side, and the powerful army of Yazid on the other.
It is a subject dear to Shias as a remark by renowned Islamic scholar Zakir Naik upset the community deeply a couple of years ago.
So Sheerani and his team members are not taking any chances.
More so, when the message of play is all about human suffering across the barriers of religion or sect.
Sheerani agrees “Karbal Katha” is the first Islamic play in the city but takes the canvas a few notches higher.
“Not just Delhi, I think it is the first Islamic play in the entire subcontinent.
I personally do not recall seeing any Islamic play anywhere in India, Pakistan or Bangladesh.”
But in times of growing intolerance, isn’t there a chance that the play might provoke a few head-strong guys?
“That is why it is necessary.
We are living in an age of increasing intolerance and the play highlights that.” All this is done through the use of dastangoi and music, elements not considered to be welcome in traditional Islamic society.
Though the play has an obvious contemporary ring to it, research must have been painstaking considering the background of Karbala events in Islamic history.
“We did a lot of research and our writer Asif Naqvi read up on so many poets, including Kabir, Jigar, Josh and the rest.”
The result of Naqvi’s research and Sheerani’s labour will be up for public scrutiny when the play is stage in New Delhi this Saturday.
Sheerani does intend to bring it back to the Capital around this August and is confident that the play will strike a rapport with the audiences everywhere.
Fine.
But will this unique presentation of the University Drama Club, AMU, make for commercially viable theatre, considering the involvement of Sayeed Alam who, in the years gone by, rejuvenated drama into a paying proposition?
“I am not sure of that, but I am confident that like his other plays, it will gradually find its own market and be able to sustain itself.” Over to Karbala, oops!
“Karbal Katha”.