1/61
Priyanka Chopra is certainly going places.
We had earlier reported about PC's lavish Montreal mansion that boasted on an indoor pool.
Now, according to a report on PinkVilla.com, the 'Bajirao Mastani' actress is all set to shift base to New York temporarily, as the next season of 'Quantico,' will be shot there.
The report states that the diva, who shared the huge Montreal mansion with her 'Quantico' co-stars, Jaz Masri and Johanna Braddy in Montreal, is now looking for a separate apartment in New York.
What's more, PC's mom, Madhu Chopra has come to the rescue of her dear daughter and is helping the busy bee find a suitable abode for herself.While this Daddy's lil girl is all grown up, check out her yesteryear photoshoot which is worth a watch...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/Priyanka-Chopra-searching-for-a-place-in-New-York/eventshow/52131276.cmsPriyanka Chopra is certainly going places.
We had earlier reported about PC's lavish Montreal mansion that boasted on an indoor pool.
Now, according to a report on PinkVilla.com, the 'Bajirao Mastani' actress is all set to shift base to New York temporarily, as the next season of ‘Quantico,’ will be shot there.
The report states that the diva, who shared the huge Montreal mansion with her ‘Quantico’ co-stars, Jaz Masri and Johanna Braddy in Montreal, is now looking for a separate apartment in New York.
What's more, PC's mom, Madhu Chopra has come to the rescue of her dear daughter and is helping the busy bee find a suitable abode for herself.While this Daddy's lil girl is all grown up, check out her yesteryear photoshoot which is worth a watch...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/PIC-Priyanka-Chopras-very-first-photoshoot/eventshow/51839828.cmsFormer Miss World and Bollywood's leading lady, Priyanka Chopra is an inspiration for many young girls who dream of making it big in Bollywood.
From being crowned Miss World to winning millions of hearts in not only Bollywood but also Hollywood, PC has come a long way.
However, everyone knows how the 'Bajirao Mastani' actress entered the glamour world.
The Padma Shri winner’s mom had made her do a photo shoot and sent the images to the Miss India contest, without Priyanka's knowledge and as destiny would have it, PC got selected for the pageant and went on to win the coveted Miss World crown.
And the rest as they say is history.
We came across some pictures from PC's first photo shoot when she was 17-years-old and one thing we feel that hasn't changed over the years is her confidence and poise.
We love!While these rare pics of PC have certainly lightened up our day, click on the next slide to read about some lesser known facts about the actress...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/Listen-PeeCee-as-sexy-Kaa-in-The-Jungle-Book/eventshow/51459145.cmsRemember the hypnotic Kaa from ‘The Jungle Book’ aka ‘Mowgli?’ Yes, the python!
Yes, the very same one who was Mowgli's mentor and friend.
Well, turns out in the modern-day Jungle Book, Kaa has got a new and improved voice and it’s none other than our very own, Priyanka Chopra.
As can be heard in the recently released trailer of the film, Kaa speaks in the deep, sexy, slithery voice of our ‘Exotic’ babe.
The girl sure has worked her magic, yet again!
Apart from Priyanka Chopra, there are other ace actors like Irrfan, Nana Patekar and Shefali Shah who have lent their voice to various characters of the movie.
The movie looks grand, filled with spectacular 3D effects that give the movie a realistic feel.While Priyanka is currently touching heights making her presence felt in Hollywood, after having conquered B-Town, the actress had a struggling start to her career.
Move on to check out one such appearance of PC in a music video…
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/Priyanka-Chopra-played-a-guy-in-Bombay-Vikings-video/eventshow/51378684.cmsThe good ol' days of music videos are a constant source of nostalgia.
However, these videos also launched or featured some faces that are now very popular.
Hence, it doesn't come as a surprise that Priyanka Chopra featured in the 'Chhod do aanchal' mix by the Bombay Vikings.
What's more?
Pee Cee played a guy's role in the retro-styled video and teases the girl.
With Priyanka ruling not just Bollywood but even Hollywood now, this video is all the more reason to cheer for the desi girl.
Not only did she persevere in the big, bad world of Bollywood, she also took every offer that came her way and made the most of it.Meanwhile, Priyanka Chopra is working hard and partying harder.
Click on the next slide to check out details of her success bash...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/Priyanka-Chopra-to-host-a-lavish-dinner-at-her-home-in-Canada/eventshow/51039907.cmsPriyanka Chopra is one actress who's making India proud at international podiums with some stellar achievements and giving her fans enough reasons to rejoice.
After doing a fantastic job in American TV series, 'Quantico' that fetched her adulation and accolades in equal amount, Priyanka also achieved another feat of being a presenter at the recently concluded Oscars.
If all this wasn't enough for our international superstar, PeeCee has now bagged the role of a villain in the next 'Baywatch' film alongside Zac Efron and Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson.
Priyanka has now decided to celebrate her splendid feats (and rightly so) by throwing a lavish party at her palatial home in Montreal, Canada where the actress would be inviting the teams of 'Baywatch' and 'Quantico' and of course, some close friends and family members to celebrate her achievements.
According to a report in Hindustan Times, Priyanka will not only host a lavish dinner, but despite a super hectic schedule, will also closely look into the arrangements, the invitation and the scrumptious spread of cuisine to ensure everyone present has a gala time at the party.
Priyanka's mom, who is currently in Canada with her, will also join her in the celebrations.
Now this is what we call a well-deserved treat for Miss Chopra, isn't it?While Dwayne Johnson has termed PC as the “biggest star out of India” and expressed his pleasure over working with her, there’s another Hollywood star who is eager to work with her.
Read on to find out who he is…- Hiten J Trivedi
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/Ryan-Reynolds-eager-to-work-with-Priyanka-Chopra/eventshow/50865753.cmsWith the back-to-back success of ‘Bajirao Mastani’ and ‘Quantico’, Priyanka Chopra is on cloud nine these days.
Plus, the People’s Choice Award and the chance to present the Oscar Award this year added to her joy.
Now, Priyanka has another reason to smile.
She has found an admirer in Hollywood star Ryan Reynolds.
During an interview with Mumbai Mirror, Reynolds was asked about his take on Bollywood.
He said that he loves how vibrant Bollywood is.
But he specifically mentioned Priyanka.
“I have not seen her show (‘Quantico’) but I've seen her interviews and she is charming, funny, and smart.
She's got a huge following and is doing great.
I would love to work with her.
I can see why she is a big star,” he said.While Priyanka might be all smiles after hearing this, recently something made her cry inconsolably.
Click the following slide to know the whole story…
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/What-made-Priyanka-Chopra-cry-inconsolably/eventshow/50477341.cmsBollywood diva, Priyanka Chopra, is all set to play a bad-ass cop delivering some mean kicks and punches in Prakash Jha's Jai GangaJaal .
Actor Manav Kaul, who was last seen in the movie CityLights , is all set to appear as the antagonist in the action packed movie.
In an interview with BollywoodLife, Manav revealed some interesting details about the movie.
He revealed that during a particular fight scene, Priyanka was supposed to get up and kick him, but she kicked him on his throat by mistake and though the actor was well prepared for such mishaps, it didn't go down well with Priyanka and she felt guilty.
He further added that after the shoot, Priyanka came up to him and asked him if he got hurt.
Despite Manav stating that he didn't, Priyanka, out of guilt, started weeping inconsolably, so much so that Manav had to drop everything and stop the shoot for an hour or so to console the superstar.
Now, who would've seen this side of Piggy Chops?Find out how PC thanked her fans on hitting 10 million followers on Twitter...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/eventshow/49009055.cms Priyanka Chopra feeling 'loved' Priyanka Chopra is one very popular and extremely active celebrity on social networking sites.
The actress recently hit a whopping 11 million followers on Twitter and three million on Instagram.
The actress had posted on Twitter, "Thank u guys for the love!!
#3MillionOnInstagram #11millionOnTwitter so Grateful!!"
[ SIC ].
Priyanka Chopra keeps all her fans updated with the happenings of her life through Twitter.
The actress will soon be seen in Sanjay Leela Bhansali's magnum opus, Bajirao Mastani .
Read on to know what Priyanka has to say about her Hollywood plans...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/eventshow/48447433.cms 'Bollywood is not a stepping stone to the West' Last week, Priyanka Chopra walked into Times Square in New York to find herself splashed across billboards and digital screens in the busiest pedestrian junction of the world.
It's the same, in the Canadian city, Montreal, where she is filming her upcoming TV show, Quantico, reports Mumbai Mirror.
Priyanka will return to India by the end of September to wrap up Sanjay Leela Bhansali's period romance, Bajirao Mastani.
"I have a few sequences with Ranveer (Singh) that I will wrap up and return to the US for Season 2.
I'm not bound by a ridiculous contract, I can travel back and forth.
I'm balancing my two worlds like the hands of Liberty," she said.
What about a Hollywood film?
"Bollywood is not a stepping stone to the West.
I am extremely picky and in no hurry to sign a Hollywood film.
I am only greedy for great roles, language and country is no barrier.
And yes, I'll always be a Hindi film star first," she signed off.
Read on to know how the actress still remains a desi girl even in US...
/priyanka-chopra-lesser-known-facts/eventshow/48339921.cms Priyanka Chopra goes desi while shooting in NY Priyanka Chopra is busy shooting for her show in the United States.
The actress is facing the heat as she's busy shooting in the sun in New York City.
Priyanka took to Twitter to update her fans and what amazed us was her connection to her desi roots.
She tweeted, "The NYC sun today is no joke!Running on rooftops n fire escapes in this blazing sun is Crazy!Need my#DesiMagicTrick" [ sic ] With all the energy drinks available in the US, the actress thought only of Glucon D!
While Priyanka Chopra continues to surprise us, read on to know what the petite actress learnt from her Aitraaz co-star Akshay Kumar...