The clock had just ticked past 3 a.m. on Tuesday when Ramanuja made his way back to the Aadi Kesava Perumal Temple in Sriperumbudur after a three-hour procession inside pushpa pallakku.
The entire temple reverberated with the chanting of Prabhandam by experts.
The final verses of Thiru Mangai Azhwar’s Thiru Nedunthandagam would have warmed Ramanuja’s heart.
The experts, many of whom had come from Thiruvallikeni (Chennai), in a sweet rendering presented the 9th Canto of Nam Azhwar’s Tiruvoimozhi, and this went up to almost 4.30 a.m.
It was now time for Ekanta Sevai (See Box) to conclude the ninth day of Ramanuja’s avathara utsavam.
Absolute silence prevailed as Ramanuja made his way to each of the inner shrines first bestowing his blessings on Nam Pillai and Vedanta Desikar and in turn receiving blessings from Nam Azhwar, Andal, Adhi Kesava Perumal, Thiru Kachi Nambi and Alavanthar to the accompaniment of hymns extolling their greatness.
The 10th day Utsavam and Ramanuja’s birthday - Tiruvathirai star in Chitrai - celebrations began after 8 a.m. with Udayavar engaging in a special gait (Oyyali-varisai) in front of Lord Rama.
The story goes that Lakshmana (Ramanuja is seen as his incarnation) had a graceful gait, which his elder brother never could see as he always walked behind Rama.
The big moment of the day
It seemed even the Rain God wanted to wish the Acharya on his birthday for soon after the three-hour morning procession, the town received light showers.
And then the big moment of the day arrived.
Ramanuja was brought to the location of his birth opposite the temple that has been converted to an ‘Avathara Mandapa.’ Here, taking the devotees back in time to the day of his birth, he was placed in a cradle-swing and offered milk in a conch shell.
He was also presented with butter.
As part of the birthday celebrations, Vastram, Garland and Parivattam that had been brought from various Divya Desams were presented to Ramanuja.
The birthday was also marked by the recital of Ramanuja’s Gadya Trayam, Tirumanjanam and street procession in the night.
Ekantha Sevai – 16 days in a Year
Several centuries ago Sriperumbudur Embar Jeer created 16 days of special Ekantha Sevai at the Aadhi Kesava Perumal temple to be observed on select occasions annually.
These days fall on the nine days during the Ramanuja Avathara Utsavam, three days in Thai, one day each on the avatara utsavam of Koorathazhwan, Pillai Lokacharya and Manavala Munigal with the final one on the last Thiruvathirai of the year in Panguni.