1/152
Anurag Basu's 'Jagga Jasoos' featuring alleged former lovers Katrina Kaif and Ranbir Kapoor has been falling into trouble every now and then.
The movie has been delayed several times, and the lead pair's current equation isn't helping much either.
Buzz was that Ranbir and Katrina had refused to fly overseas for the Moroccan schedule of the movie and Anurag was left with no option but to suspend the schedule and create exotically designed sets in the city itself.
But as per fresh reports, the duo has finally flown down to the North African country but on separate flights, reports Mid-Day.com.
A source was quoted in the report saying, "Since things went wrong between them, the duo has been keeping a distance from each other while maintaining a strictly professional equation.
But they surprised everyone by deciding not to travel to Morocco together."
The 'Ek Tha Tiger' actress is believed to have boarded a late night flight via London while the Kapoor lad took off four hours earlier with a layover in Abu Dhabi.
Looks like the films much-delayed schedule will finally be wrapped up.Move on to the next slide to read more about their alleged love life...
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Ranbir-Kapoor-Katrina-Kaif-fly-to-Morocco/eventshow/52202173.cmsAnurag Basu's 'Jagga Jasoos' featuring alleged former lovers Katrina Kaif and Ranbir Kapoor has been falling into trouble every now and then.
The movie has been delayed several times, and the lead pair's current equation isn't helping much either.
Buzz was that Ranbir and Katrina had refused to fly overseas for the Moroccan schedule of the movie and Anurag was left with no option but to suspend the schedule and create exotically designed sets in the city itself.
But as per fresh reports, the duo has finally flown down to the North African country but on separate flights, reports Mid-Day.com.
A source was quoted in the report saying, "Since things went wrong between them, the duo has been keeping a distance from each other while maintaining a strictly professional equation.
But they surprised everyone by deciding not to travel to Morocco together."
The ‘Ek Tha Tiger’ actress is believed to have boarded a late night flight via London while the Kapoor lad took off four hours earlier with a layover in Abu Dhabi.
Looks like the films much-delayed schedule will finally be wrapped up.Move on to the next slide to read more about their alleged love life...
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Katrina-Kaifs-weight-loss-affects-Jagga-Jasoos/eventshow/52128480.cmsIt seems 'Jagga Jasoos' is in more trouble now.
When the lead pair, Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif allegedly broke up, the film was the first to suffer as both the actors reportedly had trouble shooting for the film together.
Soon, the trouble seemed to be fading away with both the actors keeping their professional duties before their personal woes.
However, a report on Bollywoodlife.com states that Katrina has lost a lot of weight and is looking leaner than she did when the movie began.
A source was quoted in the same report as saying, “Katrina has changed so much since 'Jagga Jasoos' shoot started last year.
She has lost oodles of weight and because of this, there’s major continuity issue.” The source further added, "The makers aren’t too thrilled to appreciate Kat’s this makeover and are in fact fretting over it.
And so now we hear that the reshoots are happening and the makers are hoping to fix this major jump on CGI.
"Check out some more details about Ranbir and Katrina here...
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Rishi-Kapoor-opens-up-about-Ranbir-Kapoors-break-up/eventshow/52128413.cmsRishi Kapoor has time and again come across as someone who is not shy to voice his opinion.
So it came as a surprise when the veteran actor chose to stay mum about Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif's alleged breakup.
However, looks like the 'Kapoor & Sons' actor has finally decided to spill the beans on the alleged break up.
In an interview with Filmfare magazine, he said, “He’s had two relationships in the past with his co-actresses.
We’ve had no problem.
It’s up to him who he wants as a wife, as a girlfriend or work with as a co-actor.
He’s most welcome to marry whoever he wants.
We’d only be happy to have a daughter in law.”
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Ayan-Mukerji-didnt-let-Katrina-Kaif-Ranbir-Kapoor-patch-up/eventshow/52052564.cmsWhile the world has been losing sleep over what transpired between Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif that led to their alleged break-up, filmmaker and Ranbir's close pal Ayan Mukerji's name has been doing the rounds for not cooperating in their reconciliation efforts.
Like a common friend is often found caught up in catch-22 situation, Ayan Mukerji too had to take a side and he has made it more than clear by choosing Ranbir and deciding to stand by him like a strong pillar of support.
Ayan and Ranbir have been old buddies ever since the two did ‘Wake Up Sid’ and ‘Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani’ together.
But when the Kapoor kid split with ladylove Katrina Kaif after living in together for about a year, Ayan, as reported in Bollywoodlife.com, did not let any more drama affect his dear friend as he had to make a film with him which could not suffer due to their break-up.
As a result, Ayan is now being looked upon as someone who didn't let the much-awaited patch-up happen between the most talked-about Bollywood couple.Meanwhile, click on the next slide to know everything you ever wanted to know about Ranbir-Katrina split.
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/More-trouble-for-Jagga-Jasoos/eventshow/51953570.cmsIt seems that a terrible jinx has befallen Anurag Basu's 'Jagga Jasoos' starring alleged exes, Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif.
According to a report on Spotboye.com, there is more trouble brewing in Anurag Basu's camp and this time, it is not due to the actors.
It is mentioned in the report that Ranbir and Katrina are barely talking to the director as he has been changing the script too often for their likeness.
Lots of awkwardness there!Meanwhile, check out all that has happened between Ranbir and Katrina since their alleged break up...
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Katrina-Kaif-delays-Ranbir-Kapoors-Jagga-Jasoos/eventshow/51888895.cmsThis diarist really does wonder the fate of 'Jagga Jasoos,' Ranbir Kapoor's film as an actor and a producer.
Ever since Katrina Kaif and Kapoor have called time on their alleged six-year-old relationship, the kismet of this Anurag Basu-directed musical mystery hangs on a wing and a whim.
That of Ms Kaif's apparently.
Last Saturday, the film was being shot at Ballard Estate for a 9 am to 9 pm schedule.
The diarist's paparazzi crew was present too.
Kapoor came in on time and was ready pronto, but Kaif sauntered in only at 10 pm.
By the time she was ready to shoot, it was 3 am.
We also know that the only time Kapoor and she see eye to eye is when the cameras are rolling.
Moreover, their Moroccan schedule keeps getting postponed by the month since Ms Kaif refuses to go.
Guess they meant it when they said, `Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned,' right?Theirs seemed to be a whirlwind affair while it lasted, click on the next slide to read all about their rumoured love story...
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Katrina-Kaif-tries-to-confront-Ranbir-Kapoor-at-Kareena-Kapoors-bash/eventshow/51836836.cmsKatrina Kaif and Ranbir Kapoor’s alleged break-up has been sparking up rumours and speculations ever so often.
Earlier this week, we heard how Katrina tried to talk to Ranbir at Aarti Shetty’s party, where she wanted to talk things out with him, sort their differences and give their relationship another shot.
But Ranbir's cold response left Kat ashen-faced in front of all their friends and also reduced her to tears.
We now hear that the girl tried to catch up with Ranbir yet again at a bash hosted by Kareena Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan which saw the presence of several B-Towners including Shah Rukh Khan, Kangana Ranaut, Ranbir Kapoor and many more.
A source was quoted in a report on DNA.com saying that Kat, who knew Ranbir was invited to the party, went there to try and communicate with Ranbir since the latter has cut off all means of communication with his former lady love.
The source further added that Kat deserves one conversation at the very least, even if Ranbir doesn’t want to get back together.Move on to read all about Ranbir-Katrina’s break up…- Kiran Kaur
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Katrina-Kaif-quits-WhatsApp-groups-to-avoid-Ranbir-Kapoor/eventshow/51807760.cmsThere seems to be no hope of Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif’s reconciliation and there are enough signs to support our assumption.
After walking out of their joint apartment, Ranbir has been in little or no touch with Katrina and spotting them together is a rare sight now.
As per the latest report, Katrina Kaif has quit all WhatsApp groups of common friends which have Ranbir Kapoor as a member, as reported on Mid-Day.com stated.
In fact, as we recently informed you, Katrina is said to have been removed from the Kapoor Khandaan’s family WhatsApp group as well.While the ‘Ajab Prem Ki Gazab Kahani’ stars are surviving with broken hearts, know what happened when they came under one roof for a party…
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Katrina-wants-to-reconcile-with-Ranbir-but-he-doesnt/eventshow/51804868.cmsRanbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif were one of the cutest couples in B-town.
The manner in which both of them were guarded about their private lives while being media savvy is exemplary.
However, like all good things that come to an end, it seems like their alleged relationship has also apparently ended.
So much so, that there are no chances of reconciliation.
According to a Deccan Chronicle report, when Katrina and Ranbir came face-to-face at a party recently, the two had an intense conversation.
An invitee has been quoted in the report as saying that Katrina walked up to Ranbir and, in the course of their conversation, asked him if they could give their relationship another try.
However, according to the invitee's account, Ranbit flatly refused the idea and was firm when he told her it was over.
The invitee also said that Katrina was "very, very upset," after this.Their alleged relationship was a whirlwind affair, kept away from the prying eyes of the media.
However, they kept making headlines from time to time.
Read on to know more...
/ranbir-katrinas-love-life/Katrina-Kaif-removed-from-Ranbir-Kapoors-family-WhatsApp-group/eventshow/51789254.cmsRanbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif might not have come out in the open to talk about their break-up, but a new rumour, a new speculation keeps coming our way ever so often.
And the most recent we hear is that Katrina Kaif has been removed from the Kapoor Khandan's WhatsApp group.
We know that Kat was very warm and cordial with the whole Kapoor family and bonded well with them all.
She was even spotted at family get-togethers a few times.
So it's not surprising that she was part of the chat group.
However, according to a report on Spotboye.com, Ranbir's aunt, Ritu Nanda, who is the group admin, has removed Kat from the group.
Ouch!
The report further stated that Rishi Kapoor who was never a part of the group has now joined it post Kat's exit.
For the uninitiated, Ranbir and Katrina allegedly broke up in January this year and Ranbir has moved out of their love nest in Bandra into a more discreet place, closer to his parents' house.Move on to read all about their alleged break-up...