Neha Maheshwri The actor hopes to get through this phase and get back with Karishma Tanna.
| TNN | May 9, 2016, 01.00 AM ISTUpen Patel's tweet hinting at trouble in his relationship with girlfriend Karishma Tanna created a stir.
His post at 11.03 pm on May 6 read, '2 much has come 2light & shown its true colours.
love is never easy and when a certain foundation is broken it's impossible 2move forward.'
However, a day later, Upen told us that all was fine between Karishma and him.
He says, "It's not a break-up.
Every relationship goes through ups and downs.
We definitely love each other, but at the moment, we are not in a good space.
And hence, we have decided to take time apart from each other and evaluate our relationship.
We love each other, but this is a tough time for us.
We hope to get through this phase and get back together.
We are trying to work out our differences and come back stronger."
Upen Patel and Karishma Tanna part ways The 'Namaste London' actor confirmed on Twitter on Saturday.
Many felt that it was just a publicity gimmick.
"It's insulting when people feel we are faking it.
I have been in the industry for long and don't have to stoop so low for publicity.
Also, the woman (Karishma) we are talking about is an Indian woman.
Do you think she has been faking a relationship with me?"
Karishma: Marriage won't define my relationship with Upen TV actress Karishma Tanna is "very happy" in her committed relationship with Upen Patel but she says the couple is not in a rush to tie the knot.
They began dating in Bigg Boss (2014) and ever since detractors have been casting aspersions on their relationship by calling it a reality-show affair.
He retaliates, "We are not here to prove anything to anybody.
As public figures, our personal life is always under scrutiny, but we are more concerned about our feelings and families.
What people say is immaterial and I don't really care about it.
"Ask him if contrary to what cynics feel, he believes this relationship is for keeps and he replies, "Two people will find a way, if they want to be together.
I believe in love.
"Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia