1/20
Salman Khan and Kapil Sharma are leaders in their own field of work.
While Salman is one of the biggest superstars Bollywood has witnessed, Kapil, on the other hand, has garnered millions of fans worldwide due to his hit comedy show.
Now, we hear that the two have bought the rights to the same Marathi film, 'Shahanpan Dega Deva.'
A source told Spotboye.com, "Salman bought the rights of the film to make it in Hindi.
Kapil has bought the rights to make the film in Punjabi."
'Shahanpan Dega Deva' was directed by Sudesh Manjrekar and released in 2011.Move on to the following slide to have a look at other remakes to look forward to...
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Did-Varun-Dhawan-reject-Shah-Rukh-Khans-film/eventshow/52144293.cmsDuring various promotional events related to his last release ‘Dilwale,’ Varun Dhawan expressed his happiness of sharing screen space with Shah Rukh Khan in the film.
However, as per a report on BollywoodLife.com, the ‘Main Tera Hero’ actor has rejected the offer to star in the remake of ‘Ittefaq,’ which is being co-produced by SRK.
The report mentions that Varun has cited date issues but it also quotes a source saying that the actor is hesitant to work with the Baadshah of Bollywood after the ‘Dilwale’ experience.
While the fate of the cast of ‘Ittefaq’ remake is yet to be seen, there is no denying that it is one of the most awaited remakes.
In the meanwhile, have a look at other remakes that are worth waiting for…
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Hrithik-Roshan-to-star-in-the-Hindi-remake-of-Rambo/eventshow/51328180.cmsSylvester Stallone’s 'Rambo' is one of Hollywood's iconic movies.
It is a film people from all across the world grew up watching.
Now, the film is all set to be remade in Hindi by filmmaker Siddharth Anand, as reported by NDTV.com.
He has already bought the rights of ‘Rambo’.
Interestingly, his last movie, ‘Bang Bang’, starring Hrithik Roshan and Katrina Kaif, too was the remake of a Hollywood hit, ‘Knight And Day’.
The report also mentions that Hrithik will be playing the main lead in this film too.
It is also said that the character will have a desi twist to it!
Meanwhile, Akshay Kumar too is getting ready to star in a remake.
Click the following slide to know more…
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Akshays-Kaththi-remake-to-be-different-than-original/eventshow/51225561.cmsDirector A R Murugadoss and actor Akshay Kumar had joined hands for the first time with their action drama, ‘Holiday,’ which turned out to be a super successful venture.
The film was the official remake of the same director’s Tamil film ‘Thuppakki.’ Now, the duo is back with yet another remake of the former’s hit Tamil film, ‘Kaththi’.
But it seems that Murugadoss wants the Hindi version to be much different from the original.
As per a report on Mid-Day, the film will deal with the issue of water scarcity whereas the original focused on farmers’ suicide.
While a lot of south remakes are doing the rounds these days, Rajesh Khanna’s classic Hindi film too will be remade soon.
Put on your filmi cap and make a guess or you could simply move on to find out…
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Haathi-Mere-Saathi-to-be-remade/eventshow/51120106.cmsOver the last decade or so, a number of old Hindi films have been remade.
However, only few have actually succeeded at the box office.
But despite that, the trend refuses to die down.
Now, Rajesh Khanna and Tanuja’s 1971 blockbuster ‘Haathi Mere Saathi’ is all set to be remade, as reported by Mid-Day.
The film will be produced under the banner of Trinity Pictures, an arm of Eros International.
The report quotes Ajit Thakur, CEO of Trinity Pictures, saying that the film won’t be an exact remake of ‘Haathi Mere Saathi’.
The report also mentions that the original film will only be used as a reference point and the remake will be a modern-day retelling.
The film will be directed by South filmmaker, Prabhu Solomon.
While the cast of ‘Haathi Mere Saathi’ remake is yet to be finalized, Nana Patekar and Madhuri Dixit might just team up for another upcoming remake.
Click the following slide to know the whole story…
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Madhuri-Dixit-and-Nana-Patekar-to-team-up-for-Salt-N-Pepper-remake/eventshow/51053619.cmsBollywood actress Madhuri Dixit's last appearance on the big screen was in Ayan Mukerji's 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani' in 2013, where she danced to a special number.
Fans, who've missed the diva's 'nazakat' and her 'latka-jhatkas', might get to see the 'Gulaab Gang' actress work her magic on the silver screen once again.
According to reports on Mid-Day, the Dhak-Dhak girl is all set to make a comeback with none other than veteran actor Nana Patekar.
The report states that Nana and Madhuri might pair up for the Hindi remake of the Malayalam comic caper, 'Salt N Pepper' directed by Aashiq Abu.
Nana Patekar vowed audiences with his spectacular performance in the Marathi movie, 'Natsamrat'.
Nana and Madhuri have shared screen space earlier, and we can't wait to see the two light up the screens again.
Click on the next slide to read about other remakes that are worth looking forward to...
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Sonakshi-Sinha-to-star-in-Chameli-Ki-Shaadi-remake/eventshow/50715805.cmsAlthough a large number of remakes haven’t reportedly worked in Bollywood, the remake fever refuses to die down.
According to a report on Mid-Day, Anil Kapoor and Amrita Singh starrer ‘Chameli Ki Shaadi’ is the latest to join the remake bandwagon.
The film will be helmed by Radhika Rao and Vijay Sapru, who are known for Salman Khan’s ‘Lucky: No Time For Love’.
The report also mentioned that the makers are considering Sonakshi Sinha to essay the character played by Amrita in the original, which had released in 1986.
A well-known Aamir Khan film too is all set to be remade.
Click the following slide to know more about it…
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/Shahid-and-Alia-to-star-in-Dil-Hai-Ki-Manta-Nahin-remake/eventshow/50135288.cmsThe tinsel town is abuzz with speculations of Mahesh Bhatt currently penning the script of Aamir Khan-Pooja Bhatt starrer, Dil Hai Ki Manta Nahin's remake.
According to a report on Clapsnslaps.com, if all goes well, the movie will see Shahid Kapoor and Aalia Bhatt playing the lead characters.
Reports also suggest that Mohit Suri will be directing the film.
However, no official statements have been made yet.
Find out other remakes that are worth looking forward to...
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/eventshow/49945350.cmsKaranvir to seek SRK’s blessings for ‘Darr’ remake Shah Rukh Khan had his task cut out when he decided to play Amitabh Bachchan’s character in the remake of Don.
But Karanvir Bohra has an even steeper mountain to climb since he is playing SRK’s iconic character in the remake of Darr.
So, to make sure he succeeds in this uphill task, Karanvir has decided to seek Khan’s blessings next month, reports Bollywood Life.
The film is already on floors.
Pairing up with Karanvir would be Priya Banerjee.
The actress recently made her Bollywood debut in Sanjay Gupta’s Jazbaa.
The original Darr released in 1993 and became a turning point in SRK’s career.
Directed by Yash Chopra, the film also won the National Award for Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment.
Click the following slide to know about more upcoming remakes…
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/eventshow/49826434.cmsSanjay Leela Bhansali to remake Subhash Ghai’s 'Khalnayak'?
Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s magnum opus Bajirao Mastani is set to release on December 18, 2015.
Meanwhile, according to a report on Hindustan Times, the filmmaker is keen on remaking Subhash Ghai’s Khalnayak.
The report also states that Bhansali has allegedly offered Rs 9 crore to acquire the rights of the film.
However, Subhash Ghai has maintained that many producers have approached him for the rights of this Sanjay Dutt-starrer, but things are yet to be finalised.
Ghai had earlier sold the rights of his film Hero at Rs 5-7 crore to Salman Khan and Ram Lakhan to Karan Johar for Rs 5 crore.
Read on to know more about the Ram Lakhan remake...
/remakes-to-look-forward-to-in-the-coming-months/eventshow/47829325.cmsNow here's a piece of good news for Varun Dhawan and Sidharth Malhotra's fans.
The Student Of The Year actors have been confirmed for the remake of Ram Lakhan, reports Bollywoodlife.com.
As per the report, Varun will play the role of the younger brother, Lakhan and Sidharth will play the elder, responsible brother, Ram.
An official announcement about the same is expected to be made soon.
While we are eagerly awaiting the Ram Lakhan sequel, find out what Ranbir Kapoor feels about stepping into his dad's shoes...