THERE are just six weeks to go before Britain decides whether or not to leave the EU, a decision that could have dramatic political and economic consequences.
The whole process seems like a slog to British voters, who have already endured more than seven weeks of campaigning.
Last night I chaired a debate at the CIPR, not on the issues of the campaign, but on how well the various sides were communicating.
For the Brexiters, we had Andy Wigmore, head of communications for Leave.EU (the grassroots campaign rather than the Vote Leave campaign, associated with Michael Gove); for the Remain campaign, Lucy Thomas of Britain Stronger in Europe.
Also on the panel were Deborah Mattinson, once a pollster for Gordon Brown and now a strategy consultant and Antony Hilton, the veteran financial journalist.
Here follow the insights that I gained from the debate
1.
Many British people still feel disconnected from the campaign.
Ms Mattinson found many people within her focus groups had no idea what the term "Brexit" meant.
They wanted facts to help them determine their decision, but were distrustful of those facts when uttered by politicians.
They know that big business favours Remain but they want to know how they will individually be affected.
Asked for people they would trust for their opinions on the issue, they suggested David Beckham and the Queen.
2.
Leave.EU met Donald Trump more than a year ago and are quite consciously following his approach of appealing to core parts of the electorate and bypassing the mainstream media and "Westminster bubble" as Mr Wigmore put it.
They have a social media strategy with 662,000 likes of Facebook, for example.
They have just posted an anti-immigration video using Trump's voice , telling his "vicious snake" anecdote.
3.
The Leave campaign feels that the passion generated by their campaign can overcome the more reasoned arguments over the economy pursued by Remain.
To some extent, this approach was borne out by Ms Mattinson's research; focus groups shown pro-Leave and pro-Remain arguments tended to favour the former.
4.
However Mr Mattinson said the referendum had leaped up the list of issues of "most concern" to voters, with many worried about the outcome.
That concern may be good news for the Remain camp, since voting Leave clearly appears the riskier option.
5.
Mr Wigmore admitted that his group's private polling showed Remain five points ahead ( official polls are 50-50 ).
Like most people in the room, he thought Remain would win.
Betting markets feel the same with odds of 2/1 on Leave and 1/3 on Remain .
This confidence seems to be based on the view that people will back the status quo when forced to choose (as they did in Scotland).
Earlier in the day, I heard the argument that the debates shortly before the vote will help the Remain side because Boris Johnson, a leading Brexit campaigner, tends to bluster and waffle when confonted with facts; this seems a slender reed on which to hang the country's future.
6.
But the big worry for the Remain campaign is differential turnout.
Tony Hilton joked that no-one over 60 should be allowed to vote; young people, whose future will be most affected, are much more international in outlook.
But many young people may not be registered in the right place to vote (universities will have broken up by June 23) or will be at the Glastonbury festival, which occurs over the following weekend.
Overall, I was more concerned after the debate than before.
This is not just because The Economist is a supporter of the Remain camp.
It is because I fear Mr Wigmore may be right and that passion is overwhelming reason (as in the Trump campaign ).
The IMF, OECD, US defence chiefs, former heads of NATO, business leaders and President Obama have all weighed in on the Remain side; the Leave side has Marine Le Pen, Vladimir Putin and Trump.
Despite this disparity, the polls have not shifted.
Perhaps, as Tim Harford has argued , statistics have been so poisoned by misuse that they are no longer trusted.
Perhaps the voters are taking their revenge on the elites who let the 2008 crisis happen.
But whichever side wins on June 23 (and the outcome is no clearer than it was at the start), the political future looks uglier.
The passion on which the Brexit campaigners are relying may one day consume them as well.
PreviousMonetary policy:
Goodhart’s new law
Next