Coming up in the next {{countdown}} {{countdownlbl}}
{{nextVideo.description}}
Transcript for Janet Jackson Pregnancy Rumors Spark Conception Questions
More complete allergy relief.
Flonase.
61 changes everything.
The TV show "Good times".
Then she made her name as miss Jackson if you're nasty, and now we may be watching her at about 50 to become a mom.
Her new single says it all.
Janet Jackson may be expecting her first child with her husband, a businessman.
According to a report by entertainment tonight and other outlets.
Just shy of her 50th birthday, the superstar postponed her unbreakable world tour last month.
Surprising fans with this Twitter post.
And there has been a sudden change.
I thought it was important that you be the first to know.
My husband and I are planning our family.
So I'm going to have to delay the tour.
Please, if you can try and understand that it's important that I do this now, I have to rest up.
Reporter: The tour, part of Jackson's long awaited comeback releasing new music for the first time since 2010.
And winning the ultimate icon award at last year's bet awards.
My heart is so full.
Reporter: How are you feeling right now?
I'm very well, thank you.
When it comes to family, Janet has taken a hands on role in the lives of her brother, Michael's children.
I want to say I love him so much.
Reporter: Publicly comforting one of them at a memorial.
As for having her own children, the star saying after her brother's death it would be very sweet if I did have children.
The icing on the cake.
♪ Reporter: But with her nearly 50 years old, getting pregnant is challenging.
A spontaneous natural pregnancy in a 50-year-old woman is almost unheard of.
It's not that it never happens, but it's incredibly rare.
It's either the use of donor egg or the woman's own egg that she had frozen years before.
Reporter: Janet wouldn't be the first celebrity to start a family later in life.
Halle berry showing off her baby bump at age 46.
And always be my baby singer Mariah Carey opened up with her struggles about infertility.
Did you have fertility treatments to try to get pregnant?
The main thing I did was tough, and that was to go on progesterone every month.
And then when I was pregnant I had to stay with the progesterone for ten weeks.
It minimizes the chance of miscarriage by 50%.
Reporter: She eventually gave birth to healthy twins at age 4 the.
And then there's Celine who talked about her miscarriage and her ivf atechlts.
For me to share this, it's about bonding with other women going through the same thing.
Reporter: Ivf is costly.
It costs an average of about $13,000, not including the medication which can cost up to $5,000 more.
A hefty price tag for most American women.
In the United States, most of the assistive services like ivf, donor egg, are not covered by insurance.
Reporter: Janet Jackson has yet to comment on the reports of pregnancy and if so, how.
We may never know.
There's really not a lot that I or anyone else really knows.
She likes to keep a low profile.
Women who are celebrities becoming pregnant or having babies in their late 40s or 50, I think the concern is it tends to only provide a glimpse into their situation.
Reporter: With more women delaying childbirth, the fertility industry is booming, now worth 4 billion.
An egg donor program advertising accomplished donors to hopeful couples.
The premier donors get higher fee, it's based on education, S.A.T.
Scores.
When we put up a beautiful donor who is also smart and has other qualities, we get calls immediately.
I call it the immediating frenzy.
And companies like egg banks, throwing cocktail parties appealing to career women hoping to extend the biological clock.
Will you marry me?
Absolutely.
Reporter: This 29-year-old says she found the love of her life on the bachelor.
We're going to make some babies.
Reporter: But two years earlier the fertility nurse decided to freeze her eggs just in case.
It's a huge sense of relief.
I felt it would be silly for me not to take the opportunity when it was handed to me.
Reporter: But they worry that women aren't hearing enough about the risk of taking drugs to stimulus their ovaries.
That's part of the procedure.
I would like to see clarity about what it means to go under it.
You are putting chemicals into your body.
There are risks.
Reporter: And if a woman can't carry her child, a surrogate may give hope.
This 40-year-old endured six rounds of ivf and two miscarriages with no luck.
There was nothing I could do of myself to make my body do this, to become pregnant.
There was depletion financially and emotionally.
It felt tough.
Reporter: And the cost of a surrogate would be even more, up to $100,000.
But luckily for Sara, her 61-year-old mother stepped in to help.
How would that possibly happen?
No offense, but who would do that and what doctor would let them?
We kept thinking we were going to be stopped.
Nine months pregnant, 38 and a half weeks.
Becoming a surrogate and giving birth to her own grandson.
How are you doing?
Feeling good.
Reporter: The road to mother hood later in life isn't always easy.
♪ Reporter: For Janet Jackson, millions of fans tonight wondering if she'll be trading anthems like that's the way love goes for quiet lullabys some day soon.
Next, the airline that turned
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.