Television actor Siddhant Karnick’s fascination for automobiles is well known.
But when that fructified into an association with PowerDrift, an automotive startup it’s no wonder that his excitement knew no bounds.
Powerdrift, that hosts auto shows on Youtube, had requested him to join their team as part of the ‘Ride to India Bike Week’ to Goa, which was to be converted into a Youtube series later.
Love for automobiles was something ingrained in him, so it didn’t take him long to say a ‘yes’.
He takes time for a conversation with MetroPlus on his new innings with PowerDrift.
How different did the format feel from television?
I wasn’t surprised much by the differences.
In fact, I didn’t have to host it, and even if I’d done so, it wouldn’t have been a new experience for me.
Were you surprised at the bonhomie that motorists across India, despite being strangers until then, shared?
The true vibe and warmth of riders comes out on the road and that’s also the case with any group of individuals who share a common passion.
Riders, more so, because they are more expressive, adventurous and understand the challenges of riding.
They are more helpful and open to their comrades on the road or anywhere else.
Would you like to share any instances of such moving instancesyou would like to share?
When we were riding, we had to stop at Kolhapur to round up as we had lost contact with our support vehicle.
After meeting up we all pushed off but I had some trouble putting on my gear and so it took longer.
The bikes we were riding (me on Indian Dark horse) tend to get a lot of attention especially, in non-metros, so I was surrounded by the locals; a big crowd had gathered.
There wasn’t any problem as such, but a rider going by on a Royal Enfield, unknown to me, stopped by and offered his help on seeing the commotion.
After an assurance from us, he carried on riding.
More examples of these are when one’s riding to Leh.
Lots of riders stop and assist others whose bikes have broken down or have a puncture.
Even if they themselves can’t help out, they stop for a conversation or company’s sake.
That’s a feeling of brotherhood.
How often do you lose yourself in a cloud of thoughts as you bike?
For me riding is meditation and although my attention is always on the road, the subconscious comes alive and I am able to have clear communication with myself.
That happens every time I go on a long ride.
What do you think is the best part about biking?
It’s difficult to point out one thing I assure.
But if I have to, it gives me perspective on life.
Did this experience help you see Goa in a newer light?
Goa has always offered me different shades; this too was one shade I hadn’t witnessed before.
People from all walks of life sans social stigma were there to celebrate their love for a motorcycle.
I even spotted Chetaks coming in from Mumbai.
Are you returning to Goa for the event next year?
I shall be coming here in 2017 too.
I just wish it gets less commercial and stay truer to the spirit of an automobile-lover.
IBW would be able to sustain itself longer then.
( The first part of the video-series ‘Ride to India Bike Week 2016’ was aired recently.
Later, PowerDrift and Siddhant Karnick will be collaborating for a travel series, independent of IBW)