Madonna isn't letting the haters knock her down.
The 57-year-old diva took to Instagram on Wednesday to justify the risqué all-black ensemble she wore to Monday's Met Gala in New York City.
The custom-designed Givenchy outfit, which was created by Riccardo Tisci, left very little to the imagination, giving guests a peek at the "Rebel Heart" singer's toned booty and breasts.
Upon seeing the look, many users left harsh comments on her Instagram page, writing things like, "Little too much skin don't you think?
", "Trash" and "butt where is the skirt?"
Photo: Getty Images
"We have fought and continue to fight for civil rights and gay rights around the world," Madonna captioned a dimly-lit selfie taken in defense of her red carpet get-up.
"When it comes to Women's rights we are still in the dark ages.
My dress at the Met Ball was a political statement as well as a fashion statement.
The fact that people actually believe a woman is not allowed to express her sexuality and be adventurous past a certain age is proof that we still live in an age-ist and sexist society."
"I have never thought in a limited way and I'm not going to start," she continued.
"We cannot effect change unless we are willing to take risks By being fearless and By taking the road less traveled by.
That’s how we change history.
If you have a problem with the way I dress it is simply a reflection of your prejudice."
"I'm not afraid to pave the way for all the girls behind me‼" the singer concluded.
"As Nina Simone once said, the definition of freedom is being fearless.
I remain Unapologetic and a Rebel in this life and all the others.
Join my fight for Gender.
Equality!"
Madonna wasn't the only one that made a statement on the Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology themed red carpet, as a slew of celebrities pulled out all the stops for fashion's most glamorous night.
From Amy Schumer carrying donuts in a fiery red dress to Katy Perry bringing along her Tamagotchi , it was certainly a memorable night for all.
Re-live some of the best moments from the star-studded soiree by watching the video below.
Photo: Getty Images