Kelly Ripa entertained the idea of becoming a "Hollywood wife" on Wednesday's Live!
With Michael and Kelly.
Just days before Michael Strahan 's last show, the 45-year-old co-host revealed she was open to moving to Los Angeles, California, after learning that her husband Mark Consuelos' show, The Pitch , got picked up by Fox and will be filmed on the West Coast.
Ripa and Consuelos' 14-year-old daughter, Lola, is certainly on board to uproot the family from New York City.
"My daughter was like, 'OMG, are we moving to L.A.?
Should I start applying to schools now?
Because I know all the schools out there!'"
Ripa shared.
"Oh my gosh.
She wants to move to L.A. That's her big dream."
When Strahan inquired if his co-host would ever move, she admitted that she'd consider it "at some point."
"Yeah, I mean, if the show goes, yeah," she said.
"Eventually I would have to go, right?
And then I could be a Hollywood wife."
Rolling her eyes at Live!
executive producer Michael Gelman, Ripa joked, "Gelman, don't worry, I'll take you with me."
"You've got commitments here for now," he responded.
Ripa quipped back, "It will be called Live!
From My Backyard ."
Strahan added, "Yeah, with your fruit trees."
Furthering the joke, Ripa exclaimed, "The name of the show will be called Fruit Trees in the Backyard .
It will be amazing!"
Not as thrilled about the idea, Gelman replied, " Live!
at 6 a.m. "
Ripa appeared on Wednesday's Live!
just hours after People released its interview with the daytime talk show host .
While she was quite candid when speaking with the magazine about Strahan leaving Live!
for a full-time position at Good Morning America , she didn't mention the cover story at all on the show.
"I am fine, but I need assurances that we're all going to be fine," she told the publication.
"I get it.
We're excited for Michael.
He wanted that job, and it's great for him.
I think it is a perfect match, I really do.
However, what nobody considered is there's a whole other group of people that it really impacts, because we have to now find another great person."
A source connected to the search for Ripa's next co-host told ET that Live!
is looking for a more ethnically diverse replacement for Strahan, despite Anderson Cooper and Neil Patrick Harris' names being thrown around as contenders.
Additionally, ET has learned that Ripa recently began pre-taping solo celebrity interviews to air after Strahan's last show on Friday, May 13.
Photo: Getty Images