 
Julia Roberts Is Barefoot (and Breaking the Rules) at Cannes Film Festival
Presented By &
ANNE-CHRISTINE POUJOULAT/AFP/Getty Images; Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images; Samir Hussein/WireImage
Julia Roberts appeared on the red carpet at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival to screen her upcoming film, Money Monster , and she looked absolutely stunning in a vintage-inspired black gown.
Featuring a plunging neckline and off-the-shoulder cap sleeves, the gown perfectly hugged the actress' curves.
She paired her dress with a gorgeous emerald pendant on a diamond chain and a matching ring.
Roberts must have felt that her jewelry was enough, as she walked the red carpet barefoot .
While climbing up the stairs, Roberts hiked up her dress to reveal her naked feet, and does she look pretty darn comfortable—no wonder she has an ear-to-ear grin on her face!
George Clooney and his wife, Amal Clooney , appeared by her side, wearing shoes.
Earlier in the day, however, Roberts and Clooney appeared at a photo call for Money Monster , where she looked pretty in a pinstripe suit and black pumps
The lack of footwear violates the strict (but unwritten) dress code, but after last year's #Flatgate, it's not a surprise celebrities are rebelling against the rules.
Camilla Morandi/Getty Images via Corbis
Upwards of about 50 female stars were turned away from a screening of Carol at last year's event because they wore flats instead of heels.
People immediately criticized the film festival for its decision, citing health issues and old age that prevented some from wearing heels.
Emily Blunt was one star who was particularly outraged by it.
"Everyone should wear flats, to be honest.
We shouldn't wear high heels anyway, that's my point of view," she said in a press conference at the time.
"You kind of think that there's these new waves of equality and waves of people realizing that women are just as fascinating and interesting to watch, and bankable."
Roberts isn't the only one taking a stand against the rules, either.
Susan Sarandon walked the red carpet in flats, and in case her message was missed, also tweeted emojis that translated to "no heels."