Shah Rukh Khan ‘s Raees was all set to clash with Salman Khan ‘s Sultan till a few days back, but after successful negotiations, Excel Entertainment decided to move their film to January 26, 2017.
However, if you might have forgotten then let us tell you that this is the same day Hrithik Roshan’s Kaabil releases.
Produced by Rakesh Roshan and directed by Sanjay Gupta, Kaabil had announced its release date in February itself.
The makers of Kaabil and Raees did have background discussion, but after Raees decided to go ahead and announce the clash, Rakesh Roshan is apparently UPSET!
SRK , Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani had issued a joint statement, which read, “It was not an easy decision to move the film.
However, a movie of such magnitude requires the appropriate showcasing and, therefore, we have decided to shift our release date to January 26, 2017.”
However, as we mentioned, before this decision was taken Shahrukh had met Hrithik to discuss if they could shift Kaabil ’s release date.
During their meeting, Hrithik had made it clear that his father Rakesh Roshan and director Sanjay Gupta would be the right people to talk to regarding this matter.
SRK had called up senior Roshan with the same request, but the filmmaker refused to shift their film.
As a source revealed to a daily, “ SRK and Hrithik had met to discuss the release, but ultimately, it’s the call of the makers.
Rakesh Roshan has decided to not shift the release date.
But he is very upset that Raees is also releasing on the same date.
He even called up Ritesh Sidhwani on Monday afternoon to express the same and on Tuesday when the announcement came in the newspapers, he was pretty irked.”
However, Rakesh Roshan denied calling Ritesh!
He even suggested that SRK never approached him with a request to shift Kaabil .
Rakesh Roshan told the daily, “No one approached me, my release date was announced in February this year for January 26, 2017 and I am sticking to it.
Who comes or who doesn’t is not my problem.”
Industry sources also suggested that the film-maker is unhappy with Shahrukh and team Raees !
And going by the statement also, we feel that he is a bit irritated.
What do you think – Is Rakesh Roshan UPSET with Shah Rukh Khan?
Tell us in comments section below!
Also check out the motion poster of Kaabil in the video right here: