Superstar Shah Rukh Khan has been ruling Bollywood for the last two-decades but he says he doesn't celebrate success and loves fulfilling desires of his children.
PTI | May 8, 2016, 05.06 PM IST Shah Rukh Khan (BCCL)Superstar Shah Rukh Khan has been ruling Bollywood for the last two decades but he says he doesn't celebrate success and loves fulfilling desires of his children.
Shah Rukh Khan charms Lucknow People in Lucknow waited in anticipation of Shah Rukh Khan's visit days before the star actually came on Wednesday on his first ever trip to Lucknow.
"I am a 'fakir' that ways, I don't celebrate success.
If you meet me for seven days, I would be in the same pants.
I love giving things to people.
I don't buy anything for myself.
I don't have the requirement to spend money on myself," Shah Rukh told PTI.
"I don't have any personal desires, I love fulfilling desires of my children.
I don't listen to music, so I don't buy speakers.
I have a lot of shoes, but all that comes from shootings, because I wear sneakers," he said.
However, Shah Rukh says his expenditure is mostly on his lifestyle.
"I love big things, so we have a big house, big office and big films, my money gets spent on all this.
The only time I spend money is on filmmaking.
I don't go out to restaurant, I eat at home and that too, same food.
I don't buy new clothes.
And whatever I have an excitement for, I am already endorsing it," he said.
After achieving immense success, Khan now has a huge empire- a film production company, VFX Studio, IPL team, investments in companies and properties abroad.
"I feel I should do something new as I have got the opportunity to do it.
A lower middle class boy comes from Delhi has not even a penny to his name, parents are not there, orphan and you get these opportunities," Shah Rukh said.
"But if I don't do all this (investments in IPL team, VFX Studio), then I would be the biggest star at leisure doing my acting, endorsements and take some holidays," he said.
The 'Fan' star is aware that he may fail at doing things, but he is more content with taking risks and trying out different things.
"I may fail but at least I gave it a shot.
We all will fail, we all will have an end to our career one day, so let's try something new," the 50-year-old actor said.
Shah Rukh admits he hardly sits with his team (related to his businesses) primarily due to time constraints.
"I hardly spend an hour or 15 minutes with my team which is wrong.
Aditya Chopra (filmmaker friend) keeps telling me that I should sit down on the businesses," he said.
"As an actor, I spend 10 hours on a set, I hardly get time.
I believe and have faith in my team, I feel they are fantastic managers, better than me.
They come to me and ask if a thing is right or wrong," he said.
However, earlier SRK used to take keen interest in developing his huge empire, including the IPL team and the companies where he has invested.
"10 years back, I was hands-on, I used to even write ads for KKR (his IPL team), I used to edit ads.
Three years ago, I entered into a lot of things and I closed down a lot of stuff also," he said.
"Now I only do film production, VFX, KKR, Kidzania and my acting career.
I am not into day-to-day running of all these things," the 'Dilwale' star said.
Shah Rukh doesn't believe in taking loan, rather he falls back on his own capabilities.
"I go and do certain things that people don't do like, dance at functions, do more appearances and few more endorsements and put back the money in the company.
My belief is I should be able to run my business.
I put my money where my mouth is.
So far so good," he said.
Shah Rukh said whatever he earns, he invests it back into his businesses .
"My personal money is what I get from acting and from here and there (meaning endorsements).
I don't need money that ways.
We are spending not much more than what we are earning and if we do, I have to work out and we try to cut down stuff," he said.
Meanwhile, on work front, Shah Rukh will be seen next in 'Raees'.
He is also doing Gauri Shinde's film with Alia Bhatt, and has a film each with Aanand L Rai and Imtiaz Ali.
Listen to the songs of Shah Rukh Khan on gaana.com Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia