One of the pioneering institutions, founded in 1931, to foster classical arts is today struggling to keep its flag flying.
Perambur Sangeetha Sabha had the privilege of hosting concerts of giants such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, Alathur Brothers, G.N.
Balasubramanian, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, T.N.
Rajaratnam Pillai, Madurai Mani Iyer, Madurai Somasundaram, Lalgudi G Jayaraman, T.N.
Krishnan, M.S.
Subbalakshmi and M.L.
Vasanthakumari .
It was this sabha that took the initiative to celebrate the golden Jubilee of Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyenger, which was attended by doyens of Carnatic music.
The function, held at Rajaji Hall, was presided over by the then Maharaja of Mysore.
Not just concerts, the sabha also hosted dance performances, dramas and religious discourses.
Prominent artists such as Vyjayanthimala Bali, Padmini and Ragini, Kamala Laxman, T.S.
Balakrishna Sastrigal, Embar VIjayaraghavachariar, Pulavar Keeran, Pani Bhai, Thanjavur Kamala Murthy, R.S.
Manohar and Sivaji Ganesan have graced its stage.
Even Chief Minister J. Jayalalitha has also performed here as a youngster.
Vidvan Karaikudi Sambasiva Iyer was the sabha’s president for five years from 1950 to 1955.
Initially, programmes were conducted in a house but were later moved to Dharmamurthy Rao Bahadur Calavala Cunnan Chetty High School.
The sabha has now confined itself to conducting classical music concerts, which are held either at Sankaralayam or Annadhana Samajam, Perambur.
Since membership fee has been the sabha’s major source of income, it is facing a financial crunch due to dwindling membership and is looking for monetary aid from corporate houses and donors to revive its glorious past.
At this year’s Chithirai Isai Vizha ten concerts were held between April 17 and 28.
Veena artist G.R.S.
Murthy with Mannarkoil J Balaji on mridangam and Nerkunam Shankar on kanjira kept the classicism intact in his 120-minute concert.
Tyagaraja’s ‘Telisi Ramachandra’ was presented with a rhythmic lilt.
Balaji’s virtuosity with imaginative nadais further made it enjoyable.
Murthy portrayed Sriranjani ragam with sensitiveness.
While interpreting it in varying speeds, he did not make it a mere exercise over the frets.
The mid-slow tempo he chose for Tyagaraja’s ‘Sogasuga Mridanga Talamu’ was maintained with support from the accompanists.
The swaras were presented in different rhythmic patterns with accent on melody.
Balaji and Sankar’s anticipatory moves further embellished the swara bouquet.
Hindolam offers extensive scope for an instrumentalist and .
Murthy made good use of it.
Tyagaraja’s ‘Samaja Vara Gamana’ led to a brilliant tani.
The exchanges between the percussionists showed their perfect understanding.
Another striking aspect of Murthy’s concert was his strict adherence to tempo.
Age has not withered Bombay Sisters C. Saroja and C. Lalitha’s voice.
In their concert at the vizha they kept the energy levels high despite the scorching heat.
The full-house audience seemed to enjoy every moment of their singing.
Their unsparing approach in delineating Poorvikalyani took it to a different level.
Swati Tirunal’s ‘Pancha Baana’ is a kriti that brims with the beauty of this raga.
Not much heard in the recent times, the sisters delved into meaningful neravals and swaras.
The accompanying style of Madipaakam Suresh (mridangam) and H. Sivaramkrishnan (ghatam) in this kriti deserves special mention.
Madhyamavathi, the main raga, shone brilliantly at the duo’s hands.
Familiar phrases were aplenty, but a refreshing approach made them appealing.
Vijay Ganesh (violin) complimented the duo’s effort with an equally energetic display.
Tyagaraja’s ‘Rama Katha Sudha’ was at a leisurely pace giving ample scope for Suresh to play interesting nadais and arudhis.
Particularly impressive was the sisters’ breezy rendition of the anupallavi line ‘Bama Mani Janaki Sowmithri’.
It was more than welcome when the same line was taken up for niraval.
Madipaakkam Suresh and Sivaramakrishnan presented an enlivening tani going with the mood of the song.