It is never too late to repent or mend our ways in life to turn righteous.
Nothing illustrates this better than the tale of sage Valmiki.
This noble aspect of life got dramatised in the verse drama Krishivunte – if the effort is on — staged at Kalabharati Visakhapatnam.
Scripted and directed by Meegada Ramalinga Swamy, who donned the role of protagonist Valmiki, it evoked mixed response.
The tale goes thus; Ratnakar was hunter and a ruthless way layer in a forest.
One day, when he could not catch a hunt worth the effort, he seeks to waylay a sage, who simply asks him the purpose of this unkind action.
Ratnakar replies it was to feed his family.
The sage then asks Ratnakar to go and inquire if the latter’s family is ready to share the sin accrued through this unkind action.
His family disowns any share in sin for his unkind actions.
A downcast and dispirited Ratnakar returns to sage seeking forgiveness.
The sage shows him the path of righteous living.
Some accounts say it was sage Narada and here it is depicted as Saptha maharishis.
Rantakar gets imparted the holy mantra and sits then and there meditating on the mantra.
It was such an intense penance he does it unmindful of a huge ant hill formed around him over the years.
One day pleased with this great penance sage Narada calls Ratnakar to come out of valmikam (ant hill) thus Ratnkart reborn as Valmiki begins a new life as sage and at the behest of Narada, he composes the epic Ramayana.
The scenes such as Ratnakar’s early life and the episode of a couple of birds in an intimate way on the tree when one of the two falls dead hit by a dart of a hunter and the heart-wrenching wail of the surviving one that moves Valmiki to utter a few lines that come in the form of sloka which forms the initial inspiration for his composition of the epic found good theatrical presentation.
However, inconsistency in dialectical shades of the dialogue, no mention of Ratnakar’s name despite considerable length of the role in the narrative could have been avoided.
Rendition of metrical verses in diverse ragas particularly in raga Saama evoked warm response.
A combination of good histrionics and robust rendition of the verses upped its emotive appeal.
Sri Meera Kala Jyotsna hosted it.
A scene from the play 'Krishi Vunte'.