Updated: May 6, 2016 06:18 IST
The state government on Thursday sought charges of murder and rape to be levied upon actor Sooraj Pancholi in Jiah Khan death trial.
Additional public prosecutor Kalpana Heere got all of 30 minutes to prepare for her arguments to frame charges against the actor in a special women’s court.
The prosecutor repeatedly pleaded for time to prepare as she did not have her papers and the copy of the chargesheet with her but Judge Anju Shende refused to grant an adjournment.
Ms Heere relied upon the statement of Rabia Khan, mother of the deceased Jiah who first saw her dead and was the first one to record her statement before the Juhu Police Station.
She said that on the basis of her statement, a charge of murder can be made out and hence spelt out section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code to be levied on Mr Pancholi.
She also said that there are medical reports to ascertain that Jiah underwent an abortion and therefore section 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent).
She also made a mention of a letter in which Jiah had written about her relationship with the actor and hence said section 376 (punishment for rape) should be added to the case.
The advocate appearing for Mr Pancholi said there is no evidence, not even a whisper about the sections mentioned by the prosecutor.
He also said that even IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) cannot be made out in this case.
He also said that there no evidence of murder against Mr Pancholi in the entire chargesheet.
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.
Get News Delivered To Your EmailSend Me NewsPlease enter a valid email address.
Kindly confirm the Newsletter subscription by clicking the link that your have received by email
We have a strong list of subjects and experts who will be contributing to this series.
We also want to hear from you.
»
close Recent Article in Mumbai Local