Kangana Ranaut: I was a small town girl with big dreams and I had the courage and conviction to fulfil them
Sushmita Sen shares a video of her daughter's childhood
'Kahaani 2' gets a clean release date
Prachi Desai: I am the victim of my image
Sonam Kapoor, first Indian to launch an app on herself
Madhu Chopra: Priyanka Chopra won't refuse a good Bhojpuri film
Dino set to go for San Juan festival
Akshay Kumar: Fans' behaviour must also be noted
Manish Paul might not host the next season of Jhalak
Spotted: AbRam in the arms of SRK Celebs @ Product launch Karisma inaugrates kids wear Juhi at ISKCON Asha's UK farewell tour Soma’s Padma party Get-together at gaming zone Mr India 2016
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Sanyukta IyerThe actor will also grow his hair out to play a believable Khalnayak in the upcoming Raju Hirani directed biopic.
| Mumbai Mirror | May 7, 2016, 12.14 PM ISTWhile Sanjay Dutt is excited about Rajkumar Hirani's upcoming biopic on him, featuring Ranbir Kapoor, he admits that he hasn't heard the script yet.
But when discussing the project with a friend, he revealed that Raju and he will finalise the details before the film rolls in October.
"It will be a collaborative project between both our productions houses," the actor revealed...Currently, he is spending some quality time with his family before he begins shooting for Siddharth Anand's action film by the year-end, followed by the next installment in the Munnabhai franchise.
"But I am most interested in the biopic," he admitted.
RK has dived head-on into prep already and has four months to ace Baba's look.
"The first sequences to be shot are from the 1990s, when Sanjay acted in films like 'Thaanedar', 'Saajan', 'Gumrah', 'Khalnayak', 'Aatish', 'Safari' and 'Kartoos'.After that they will go back by a decade to the '80s, which will focus more on his personal life.
There won't be any archival footage used though," a source close to the development informed Mirror.
Ranbir will have to knock off almost 10-20 kgs for the part and will then have to re-gain the weight for the second schedule.
Sanjay has been helping the actor with his prep.
They met in Delhi earlier this week when Ranbir spent some time with Sanju's twin children - Iqra and Shahraan.
"This was followed by Sanjay sharing his life experiences with him over a family dinner.
It's become a ritual for Ranbir to drop by Sanjay's home for late night dinners," adds the source.
dinners," adds the source.
In an earlier interview to Mirror (November 30, 2015) Raju had revealed that the Sanjay Dutt biopic would release in 2017.
"We'll keep showing Sanju the film as we progress," he'd informed.
"Ranbir is friends with Sanjay and knows his life inside out.
He had heard most of the stories before we narrated them to him."
Buzz is, the biopic will not touch on any of the controversies, including drug abuse and jail terms, focussing instead on family and love.
"Yes, there will be no jail time shown," the source confirms.
"It is nothing like you have imagined."
WATCH: Ranbir Kapoor shot for 'Jagga Jasoos' round the clock Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia