Lata Mangeshkar has captivated many a listener with her voice.
Saritha Rahman too was enamoured by the singer’s dulcet tones.
She recalls hearing an audio cassette comprising some of the songstress’ songs as a child.
Fascinated by the voice, the cassette became a prized possession as she played the songs each day.
“There was something about her voice that spoke to me,” says Saritha, who is currently presenting concerts that feature some of Lata’s evergreen melodies.
“It is a tribute to the artiste who turned 86 last year.
We held a concert on her birthday on September 26, last year in Kozhikode and have held shows in various districts since.
We will conclude the tour in Kozhikode on September 26, 2016.
Thiruvananthapuram is next on our itinerary,” says Saritha, who hails from Tirur, Malappuram.
The Lata tour according to Saritha has always been a dream of hers.
It is her husband, Nowshad Mehfil, who encouraged her to finally realise it.
The concerts, says Saritha, trace Lata’s journey in music.
“I cover each era of her music.
No two concerts are the same as Lataji has sung hundreds of songs over the years, and all of them to me, are classics,” says Saritha, who lists ‘Dheere se aaja re’, ‘Lag jaa gale’ and ‘Tere mera pyar amar’ as some of her favourite Lata songs.
A B-high grade artiste at All India Radio, Saritha, specialises in ghazals and mehfils.
Music, according to the 36-year-old, was always a part of her household.
“My late father, Chavakkad Rahman, was a Mapilla singer, composer and tabla player, who ran his own music troupe – Rahman Music Club.
My mother, Abida Rahman, a singer, would assist him in his shows and used to hold music classes.
But my mom never taught me music.
I learnt it by ear and later honed my skills at Chittur Government College.”
It was the sweet sound of applause during one of her father’s concerts that got Saritha hooked to music.
“I sang a song and the audience applauded at the end.
The rush you get when you realise you are being applauded for your talent is an experience in itself.
There was no turning back after that.”
Saritha has recently brought out an album, ‘Oru Vaaku Pinneyum Baakki…’ comprising nine songs that have a ghazal touch.
The lyrics penned by Nowshad, have been tuned and rendered by Saritha.
So, what next?
“Well, I want to pay tribute to M.S.
Baburaj’s songs by holding a state-wide tour, just like I am doing now for Lataji.
I also hope to extend my Lataji tour to other states.
Hopefully, one day I will get to meet her.
That will be a day I will cherish for life.”
Saritha will be performing songs by Lata Mangeshkar at Co-Bank Auditorium on May 7, 6.30 p.m.