By: PTI Kochi Updated: May 11, 2016, 16:54
Related Videos Meizu m3 note First Look How To Set Up Chromecast Audio In 8 Simple Steps Why Alia Bhatt Was Comfortable Abusing In Udta Punjab ?
Shashank Manohar Resigns As BCCI President With Eye On ICC Post
By: PTI | Kochi |
Updated: May 11, 2016 4:54 pm
Solar scam prime accused Saritha Nair.
(Source: PTI/File)Saritha S Nair, prime accused in the solar scam, on Wednesday produced pen drives and CDs before a commission probing the scam, claiming it contained “evidence” linking top state politicians with the scandal.
Speaking to reporters after producing the documents before the Justice B Sivarajan Commission, she said more digital proof would be produced before the panel on May 13.
Kerala solar scam: Saritha files plea in HC, wants CBI to probe CM's role Solar scam: Had freedom to enter Oommen Chandy’s house anytime, says Saritha S Nair Story of Saritha Nair -- the woman at the centre of solar scam CM Chandy phoned my mother asking not to reveal scam details: Saritha Kerala solar scam: Audio has Congress leader ‘tutoring Saritha’ ahead of her deposition Kerala solar scam: Key accused told to produce ‘original’ letter with ‘VIP names’
Saritha dismissed Chief Minister Oommen Chandy’s claim that he has no connection with her and the scam.
“The evidence I produced before the Commission will prove the role of some top politicians, including the Chief Minister, in the scam,” she said.
Saritha claimed the digital documents contained evidence of what she had written in a letter while in police custody.
She had in the letter, which was recently aired by two news channels, alleged that the Chief Minister and a host of other leaders had sexually abused her.
Dismissing the charges, Chandy has filed a criminal defamation case against Saritha and four journalists of two news channels, complaining that they hatched a conspiracy to defame him by airing the news item on April 3 and 4, to the effect that he raped her.
The complaint filed before Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, said they released a “truncated letter (allegedly written by her while she was in judicial incarceration) wherein it is stated that she was raped by the complainant in his official residence–Cliff House, Thiruvananthapuram.
“Common sense fails to comprehend as to how such an incident can occur in the Cliff House, where the complainant is residing with his family, and several security guards,” the complaint had said.