[Warning: This story contains spoilers from Thursday's episode of Inside Amy Schumer .]
It took less than three minutes for Amy Schumer and a few of her famous friends to accomplish a Hollywood takedown.
Kicking off Thursday's episode of Inside Amy Schumer was Steve Buscemi, presenting live from the famed Dolby Theatre.
"Women ... am I right?"
he asks to laughs inside the Hollywood home of the Academy Awards before introducing the nominees for best actress.
Cue movie parody clips featuring Schumer and actresses Julianne Moore, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Jennifer Hudson and Laura Linney all playing the same big-screen role: Wife waits at home for husband to call.
"I know what you're doin' over there is important, but when you comin' home, baby?"
asks Schumer's character in a film titled The Clumsy Coal Miner — while some are loosely based on real movie titles, all portray the familiar plot of a man going off to adventure while the worried woman takes care of things at home.
In Canadian Sniper — a clear riff on American Sniper — Linney screams her husband's name to the sounds of gun shots ricocheting on the other end of the line.
Borrowing a title from the Rachel McAdams-Eric Bana starrer, Moore rubs her pregnant belly in The Time Traveler's Wife's Husband.
Gyllenhaal cradles two babies while doing laundry in The Wallaby Whisperer.
And Hudson runs toward the ringing in The Phone Rings Eternal.
When the Oscar is awarded to Schumer's character, she thanks the writers for coming up with such "dynamic roles" for women.
"Without you, we wouldn't be able to answer the phone," she says.
"Thank you, heroes."
When asked how they pulled off such a star-powered short, Schumer co-creator and executive producer Dan Powell told The Hollywood Reporter thateach of the actress' clips were shot on different days.
"Each time we got to shoot one of those snippets it was a real honor," he said.
"It took a lot of working around these incredible actresses’ schedules, but fortunately each of them had one shot.
They came on set and we had them done in 15 minutes.
Maggie Gyllenhaal was like, 'That’s it?
Is there more I can do?'"
Whether an Oscar, Emmy or a Golden Globe, all four stars have statues to their name, giving them clout to poke fun at the lack of female leads and types of roles available to women.
"We wanted women who are esteemed actress who have either been nominated or are always in play to give it that realism and gravitas," Powell said.
Schumer's show is known for its takes on sexism and ageism and this year, when diversity chatter has bubbled up over #OscarsSoWhite and pay equality, this is just her latest swipe at Hollywood gender bias (a conversation widely launched by close pal Jennifer Lawrence last year ).
"I'm labeled a sex comic," Schumer said in her HBO special Amy Schumer: Live at the Apollo .
"I think it's just 'cause I’m a girl.
I feel like a guy could get up here and literally pull his dick out, and everyone would be like, 'He's a thinker.'"
Inside Amy Schumer airs Thursdays at 10 p.m. on Comedy Central.
Watch the full "Best Actress" sketch here .
Photo credit: Comedy Central
Inside Amy Schumer May 05, 2016
7:30pm PT by
Jackie Strause
Julianne Moore, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Jennifer Hudson, Laura Linney (and "presenter" Steve Buscemi) all appeared in the sketch mocking Hollywood gender bias.