From dramedies to psychological thrillers, award-winning series and fan favorites are returning this summer to pick up where they left off.
Returning shows are coming back to answer some year-long fan questions, welcome in new faces and in two cases, present their farewell seasons.
Below are a few of the biggest titles for this summer.
(Warning!
Spoilers below.)
After proving itself as a solid ratings performer last year, M. Night Shyamalan's psychological thriller returns.
Picking up after the events of season one, the adaptation of Blake Crouch's best-selling books welcomes a slew of familiar faces (Hope Davis, Terrence Howard, Carla Gugino, Toby Jones and Melissa Leo, among others) as well as newcomers like Jason Patric and Djimon Hounsou .
He'll be back.
After a breakout turn as troubled brother Danny, Emmy-nominee Ben Mendelsohn returns as a series regular for the upcoming sophomore season despite — spoiler alert!
— his on-screen death.
The twisty family drama gets more complicated with the arrival of Danny's son as well as a dangerous man from Danny's past, played by John Leguizamo .
Despite its small but loyal fanbase , The CW drama will bid adieu this summer following the fourth season after years on the bubble.
But the question remains: after the season three finale wedding of star-crossed lovers Catherine (Kristin Kreuk ) and Vincent (Jay Ryan), where do the final episodes go from here?
Detective Jane Rizzoli (Angie Harmon) and medical examiner Maura Isles (Sasha Alexander) will crack their final case when the long-running procedural kicks off its seventh and final season this summer.
Alexander teases a "bittersweet" end as the series explores what the future holds for this mismatched pair.
Behind the scenes, both stars will make their directorial debuts.
The ladies of Litchfield are back!
Details are sparse about season four of the Jenji Kohan series, with the exception of several new characters introduced at the tail end of season three.
One is a celebrity chef found guilty of insider trading — Martha Stewart, anyone?
— played by Fringe' s Blair Brown.
Images for the new episodes also reveal that Alex (Laura Prepon) will be back, despite that attack at the end of season three, and Sophia (Laverne Cox) remains in solitary confinement.
The USA Network hacker drama returns for season two fresh off its Golden Globe, Critics Choice, Peabody and WGA wins for its breakout first season.
The cast, led by Rami Malek and Christian Slater, will welcome several new faces, including Grace Gummer and Craig Robinson.
In addition, creator and showrunner Sam Esmail will step behind the camera to direct the entire sophomore season, which comes on the heels of fsociety's successful takedown of Evil Corp.