In Defense of Selena Gomez's 2016 Met Gala Dress
Presented By &
by
Diana Nguyen
|
Real talk: What did you really think of Selena Gomez 's dress?
Style, at its best, is subjective—but post- 2016 Met Gala , fashion critics neither really praised nor condemned Selena's Louis Vuitton look.
Commentary on the "Hands to Myself" singer's ensemble was polite (perhaps as to not offend her die-hard fan base).
Helin Jung, of Cosmo , called her frock "low-key for fashion's biggest event of year," while others described her look as "relaxed" or "pared-down."
Feedback was complimentary but didn't actually address what worked or didn't—and therein lies the problem.
Because, in my opinion, I think Selena was one of best dressed stars on the red carpet—her look deserves to be talked about, a dialogue, a real opinion.
Let's discuss with possible arguments what kept her off your personal Best Dressed list.
Her Dress Was Too Casual: This may have been one of the biggest reasons why editors kept Selena off their Best Dressed list.
But, be honest: Would another metallic, floor-length gown really make an impact?
In a sea of sequins, Selena stood out.
Let's also remember that the star is only 23—while we've seen her do mature glam many times, it was refreshing to see her embrace a youthful spirit.
Where Was the Tech?
As expected, designers interpreted this year's Met theme, "Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology," in literal ways—we saw a myriad of metallics, LED-lit accessories and 3-D-printed-looking detailing.
Designers were heavy-handed with what we imagine is the future of design as it pertains to technology (robot-chic?).
Futuristic costumes were expected, but the theme aims to recognize the merge of high fashion and machine-made fabrication as it exists today.
Stephen Lovekin/REX/Shutterstock
And today is all about the millennial, the generation that has been characterized by caring less about traditional careers and aspirational lifestyles and more about passion-driven pursuits and relatable, almost nostalgic, style.
See: Selena's Met Gala outfit for reference.
Lace-Up Booties on the Red Carpet?
Let's be real: When you're one of the co-chairs of the Met Gala, as was such the case with Louis Vuitton, you have influence over what the celebs wear.
LV-clad stars, including Alicia Vikander and Michelle Williams also wore similar shoes.
At the end of the day, fashion is a business, and these shoes are going to make the luxury brand major moolah.
It Was Too Much of a ‘90s Throwback: Speaking of nostalgia, the ‘90s trend is back.
This Louis Vuitton fall 2016 dress was custom-tailored for Selena—the embellishments were added to the ivory dress specifically for the singer.
But if it were a floral print, instead of studded detailing, this dress could've been made for Courtney Love or Drew Barrymore circa Never Been Kissed .
The embellishments modernized the simple silhouette, that if tighter, fuller or longer, would've made it more formal—which was not the point.
Then there's the leather bralette, which cannot be overlooked.
A closer look would surely show the precision cuts (probably with a laser) and how it was tailored to fit Selena's body.
Technology.
Considering these arguments, would you put Selena on your Best Dressed list?