May 04, 2016
10:00am PT by
Lesley Goldberg
Ade Oyefeso, left, and Anders Hayward Getty Images
From Channel 4, Eleven and Entertainment One, the series was created by actor-writer Tom Basden and stars Ade Oyefesco and Anders Hayward.
TNT is expanding its scripted roster.
The Turner-owned cable network is teaming with the U.K.'s Channel 4 for travel dramedy series Foreign Bodies, The Hollywood Reporter has learned.
Created by actor-writer Tom Basden ( Peep Show ), the eight-episode drama hails from producers Eleven and Entertainment One and will debut on E4 in early 2017, with TNT set to follow later next year.
Written by Basden, James Wood ( Ambassadors ), Amy Roberts ( Shameless ), Loren McLaughlin ( Shameless ), Charlie Covell ( Banana ), Tim Key ( Screenwipe ) and Jonny Sweet ( Together ), Foreign Bodies centers on a group of travelers embarking on a three-month trip around Asia.
Brits Sean (Ade Oyefeso, Unforgotten ) and Dylan (Anders Hayward, Sistema ) meet American girls May (Alice Lee, Faking It ) and Ashley (Brittney Wilson, Bates Motel ) in Beijing and opt to undergo the first leg of their travels together.
But they soon find that their journey takes them much further than any of them expected.
Hayward stars as delusional romantic Dylan, who thinks every woman he meets is a potential life partner.
Oyefeso is Sean, a friendly guy hoping for a bit of escapism.
Wilson plays blunt and headstrong Ashley, a young American student who is academically intelligent but emotionally stunted.
Lee is set as May, a high-strung worrier who tends to overthink every situation.
Tim Key ( I Give It A Year ) is set as Greg, a 38-year-old in denial about his marriage, his business and life in general.
The series is being produced by Jamie Campbell and Joel Wilson's BAFTA-nominated production company Eleven and global studio eOne.
Jonathan van Tulleken ( Misfits ) will direct the first batch of episodes.
eOne will maintain worldwide rights outside of the U.K. Channel 4's Piers Wenger and Roberto Troni commissioned the series, with eOne vp global production set to oversee.
For TNT, Foreign Bodies joins a roster of dramas that also includes The Last Ship, The Librarians, Major Crimes, Murder in the First, Rizzoli & Isles as well as the upcoming Animal Kingdom, Good Behavior, The Alienist and the Tales From the Crypt horror block —with the latter four all picked up under new topper Kevin Reilly.
TNT