The Black Sabbath rocker attempted to hug and kiss his wife amid the fallout.
Sharon and Ozzy Osbourne's first appearance together since his alleged affair looked remarkably uncomfortable.
The 67-year-old rocker tried to hug his estranged wife, 63, and kissed her on the cheek at a press conference in Los Angeles on Thursday, but the actions didn't seem to be reciprocated as the couple of nearly 34 years deal with the fallout from Ozzy's alleged affair with his hairstylist.
Photo: Getty Images
The Talk co-host was polite but brief while introducing Ozzy -- whom she also manages -- at the press conference announcing the merger of the Ozzfest and Knotfest metal music festivals in 2016.
"My wife did it," said Ozzy, explaining the festival merger was Sharon's idea.
"We've been touring for the last few months."
"She's everything for me," he added.
"She's great."
Ozzy has still been wearing his wedding ring throughout the marriage drama.
Meanwhile, a source close to Sharon tells ET that she's taking the split very hard.
"Sharon has put up with a lot over the course of their marriage and there have been other dramatic things that have happened with them in the past, but this is the first long-time affair Sharon has found out about," the source says.
"This is an emotional affair -- it wasn't just a one-time hookup.
There are feelings there between Ozzy and this woman.
This is a double life he’s been leading -- and that's what upset Sharon the most and made her leave him."
The TV personality's appearance at Thursday's press conference was definitely an indication of how important Sharon is to the professional side of the relationship.
"First and foremost, Sharon is a businesswoman," the source says.
"She organizes everything.
She's the family glue."
During Sharon's return to The Talk on Tuesday following the split, she candidly admitted, "I honestly at this point today, have no idea what I'm going to be doing for the rest of my life."
Sharon also said that Ozzy was back in the couple's Beverly Hills home, but that she had left.
Watch the video below for more.
Playing EXCLUSIVE: Ozzy Osbourne Says Sharon Is 'Everything for Me' in First Icy Reunion Since Cheating Scandal