'Kahaani 2' slated for release on November 25
Swara Bhaskar doing a radio film for Mother’s Day
Saif's next to be a psycho-comic drama
Ranbir Kapoor hangs out with Sanjay Dutt's kids
Rakesh Roshan unhappy with ‘Raees’ – ‘Kaabil’ clash?
Sanjay Dutt: Let me patch myself first and then will think about patching others
Watch: Shah Rukh-AbRam's play time at Eden Gardens
'Trishul' completes 38 years of its release
Evelyn @ La Hair Affaire TV actress in stylish hijab Salman's shoot with his nephews Azhar @ Radio Mirchi 63rd National Film Awards Amar Singh launches Bhouri Jacqueline takes rickshaw ride Sid's new hairstyle
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Actor Sushant Singh Rajput has confirmed that he and his girlfriend Ankita Lokhande have parted ways.
He shared that "people do grow apart and it's unfortunate."
IANS | May 5, 2016, 01.06 PM ISTSushant Singh Rajput, Ankita Lokhande Actor Sushant Singh Rajput has confirmed that he and his girlfriend Ankita Lokhande have parted ways.
He shared that "people do grow apart and it's unfortunate."
Nothing' inspires Sushant Singh Rajput Actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who will next be seen in the upcoming film 'M.S.
Dhoni: The Untold Story', says "nothing" inspires him in life.
Sushant was having a chat session with his fans on Twitter, when a user asked him: "Who or what inspires you?"
There have been reports about the star couple, who featured together in the TV show 'Pavitra Rishta', breaking up.
And now, he has confirmed the split.
"Neither she was an alcoholic nor I am a womaniser.
People do grow apart and it's unfortunate.
Period," Sushant tweeted.On the work front, he will be soon seen on the big screen in 'MS Dhoni: The Untold Story' - based on Indian Cricket Team Captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni.
A user wrote: "Hey @itsSSR read somewhere that you are doing another sports biopic.
Is it true?
Eagerly waiting."
Sushant replied saying: "Yes it is.
We are gonna start working on it very soon.
"Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia