Kim Kardashian just received the best Mother's Day present of all time.
On Sunday, the mom-of-two woke up to a live orchestra, a gift from her husband , Kanye West, and their 2-year-old daughter , North.
Clearly amazed by the thoughtful surprise, the 35-year-old reality star shared pics and videos of the lovely gift on Snapchat.
Photo: Snapchat
In one of the videos, Kim can be seen watching the musicians play as she tightly holds North, who helped pick out the song selection, which included "Tomorrow" from Annie .
Later, Kim celebrated the special day with her own mom, Kris Jenner, and her siblings by making homemade beeshee, an Armenian breakfast dish.
In typical Kardashian fashion, Kourtney documented the pancake-making process over Snapchat.
According to her posts, she began making the dough on Saturday.
Photo: Snapchat
In another post, Kourtney proclaimed Rob got to eat "the best one of the day."
Photo: Snapchat
But she later took it back when Kendall baked beeshee "#11," the actual "best one of the day."
Photo: Snapchat
Kourtney also gave fans a peek at her brand new Chanel purse, as well as the beautiful flowers Rob gave to their mom.
Photo: Snapchat
"Happy Mothers Day to all the amazing Moms out there!!!"
Kris later wrote on Instagram.
"Lots of love #myheart #blessed."
Kourtney's Mother's Day Instagram post was just as sentimental.
"Feeling overwhelmed with love and blessings being able to be a mommy to these three angel babies," she captioned a pic of her three kids, Mason, 6, Penelope, 3, and Reign, 1.
"My favorite role in life so far is being a mommy and getting to see life through their eyes.
Happy Mother's Day!"
Meanwhile, Kylie took to Snapchat to share some of the other gifts Kris received, which included custom made "Momager Tour" T-shirts.
The shirts were printed with Kris's face, all done-up in the iconic stage makeup of Gene Simmons from the rock band KISS.
She also shared a pic of North in a floor-length princess gown, telling her fans that her niece likes to sleep in it.
While Kim's hair was pulled back in tight cornrow braids on Sunday, she rocked a more glam look on Saturday, taking to Snapchat to show off her cool 'do and ample cleavage.
And it looks like Kanye was exhausted from all that extensive planning -- Kim caught him snoozing on the couch when she returned home from work.
Playing Kim Kardashian Receives At-Home Orchestra on Mother's Day Before Celebrating With Entire Family