Brie Larson slayed her first-ever Saturday Night Live hosting gig, pulling out all the stops (hello, Game of Thrones spoof), and even getting a little help to kick-off the show with the return of a fan-favorite character.
The Room star hosted the sketch comedy show on the eve of Mother's Day, so naturally, she had to poke a little fun at the idea of motherhood.
In one of the most-talked about skits from the night, Larson plays a pregnant woman who is celebrating her baby shower.
Her guests tell her that even though she's due on July 14, it's the first post-baby trip to the salon that truly marks the first day of motherhood.
"She wants to know when you're getting 'The Cut,' sweetie," SNL cast member Kate McKinnon says.
"You know, the haircut that all moms have," her co-star, Cecily Strong, adds.
"That's a soft waterfall in the front but knives in the back."
"The one that looks like you're going to a formal event but on the way you were struck by lightning," Vanessa Bayer further explains.
The guests then all take turns explaining their personal experiences of when they knew it was time to get the "magical" cut.
Watch the full clip below.
The "Baby Shower" skit wasn't the only highlight from Saturday's show, however.
Check out three other must-see moments from the well-received episode.
SPOILER ALERT!
'SNL' Spoofs Jon Snow's Fate in 'Game of Thrones'
During last week's episode of GoT , Jon Snow finally made his long-awaited return to the HBO fantasy series, making room for plenty of jokes.
In the sketch, Larson, 26, and Strong attempted to speed up the Lord Commander's resurrection by giving advice to Melisandre, played by McKinnon, as she performs her magic.
'Church Chat' Makes a Comeback
Dana Carvey returned to SNL to revive his iconic Enid Strict character -- aka Church Lady -- for a cold open that poked fun at this year's Met Gala fashion , Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump and Beyoncé's Lemonade .
Carvey appeared on SNL from 1986 to 1993.
Near-Death Experience, Take Two!
As many SNL fans can recall, the first version of this sketch was an absolute giggle fest, as host Ryan Gosling couldn't keep himself together.
The second time around, Larson, Strong and McKinnon all kept a straight face while reflecting on their "lucid" memories following a car accident.
In case you missed it, watch the video below to see highlights from Gosling's episode.
Photo: NBC