Woody Allen arrived at the Cannes Film Festival to bask in the glow of his latest flick, but instead was mocked for his sleazy past — and even called a sex predator at his own premiere.
“You’ve shot so many of your films here in Europe and yet in the US you haven’t even been convicted of rape,” deadpanned French comedian Larent Lafitte, the master of ceremonies at the screening of Allen’s “Cafe Society.”
As the 80-year-old “Annie Hall” director suffered in Cannes, his son, Ronan Farrow, piled on back in the United States, publishing a piece in The Hollywood Reporter that revisited allegations that Allen sexually abused Ronan’s adopted sister, Dylan.
Farrow blasted actors who continue to work with his estranged dad.
“Tonight, the Cannes Film Festival kicks off with a new Woody Allen film,” he wrote.
“He’ll have his stars at his side — Kristen Stewart, Blake Lively, Steve Carell, Jesse Eisenberg.
They can trust that the press won’t ask them the tough questions.
It’s not the time, it’s not the place, it’s just not done.
“There will be press conferences and a red-carpet walk by my father and his wife (my sister).”
But the media didn’t go as easy on Allen as Farrow predicted.
At a press conference held just before his film’s screening, Allen was forced to feign deafness to dodge a question about why his films often include affairs or pair young women with older, creepy men.
In his current film, 26-year-old Kristen Stewart of “Twilight” fame is in a love triangle with Carell — a gray-bearded 53 years old.
Blake Lively, Woody Allen, Kristen Stewart and Jesse Eisenberg attend the "Cafe Society" premiere on May 11.
Naomi Watts at the"Cafe Society" premiere Photo: James Gourley / REX / Shutterstock
Jeweler Fawaz Gruosi and Bella Hadid at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Lily Donaldson at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Julianne Moore at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Susan Sarandon at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Doutzen Kroes at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Victoria Beckham at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Justin Timberlake and Anna Kendrick at the"Cafe Society" premiere
Eva Longoria at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Vincent Lindon and Jessica Chastain at the "Cafe Society" premiere
Blake Lively, Woody Allen and Kristen Stewart at a "Cafe Society" photocall on May 11 Photo: Maxppp via ZUMA Press
Jesse Eisenberg at a "Cafe Society" photocall
Omar Sy and Josh Gad at an "Angry Birds" photocall on May 11 Photo: Loic Venance / AFP / Getty Images
Kirsten Dunst, Vanessa Paradis and director George Miller at a jury photocall on May 11
Justin Timberlake at a "Trolls" photocall on May 11
Anna Kendrick at a "Trolls" photocall Up Next A law enforcement official says investigators are trying to identify every...
17 “What did she say?” Allen screeched.
“You know I have hearing aids and I put the microphone over my hearing aids to give me a double shot and it’s still not working.”
Eisenberg, who stars in “Cafe Society,” repeated it in a less pointed way: “How do you decide on your romantic motifs?”
“I have always thought of myself as a romantic — this is not necessarily shared by the women in my life,” ­Allen retorted.
Another reporter asked if Woody has ever thought about matching a younger man with an older woman.
Allen, who was dating Mia Farrow when he had an affair with her 21-year-old adopted daughter Soon-Yi, said he doesn’t have any experience “to draw on.”
“I wouldn’t hesitate to do that if I had a good idea for a story with a 50-year-old woman and a ­30-year-old man.
It’s a perfectly valid comic idea,” he said.
But Allen then told a story about having a “big crush” on a 50-year-old woman when he was 30.
Woody Allen (right) and his partner Soon-Yi Previn attend the Cannes opening ceremony.Photo: Getty Images“She was married and wouldn’t go near me with a 10-foot pole,” he explained.
Allen put on a brave face during an hour-and-a-half lunch he shared with Soon-Yi and three other pals at the swanky Nikki Beach, sources said.
Donning his signature bucket hat, Allen greeted fans and posed for pictures, according to sources.
Later that evening came the big red-carpet premiere of his new movie.
Ronan Farrow, who has long criticized his father, said the film world has been silent about the claims against his dad, who has vehemently denied he committed sexual assault.
“That kind of silence isn’t just wrong.
It’s dangerous.
It sends a message to victims that it’s not worth the anguish of coming forward.
It sends a message about who we are as a society, what we’ll overlook, who we’ll ignore, who matters and who doesn’t.”
Additional reporting by Danika Fears