4 major bridal wear trends you missed in the movie FAN
Dear Katrina Kaif, here’s why we’ll miss you at Cannes!
Turn up the style with off-the-shoulder ruffles
Sizzling and stylish: Yummy mummies of B-Town
Never go OTT.
That’s strictly for the ladies: Samir Kochhar
Sonakshi Sinha stuns in boho bride look
18 Iconic photos of Audrey Hepburn people are talking
Happy Birthday Trisha Krishnan: Decoding South Indian sensation’s style file
H&M surprised everyone with 5 stunning looks at Met Gala
More Home Home Life & Style Relationships
Man-Woman
Parenting
Work
Pets
Soul Curry
Ask the expert
Specials
Health & Fitness Health News
Fitness
Diet
Weight Loss
Home Remedies
De-stress
Specials Every Heart Counts
Listen To Your Sugar
Beauty
Photo Stories Relationships
Health & Fitness
Beauty
People
Food
Home & Garden
Fashion
Books
People
Food Food Features
Food Reviews
Bar Reviews
Recipes
Quick Food
Drinks Corner
Specials
Books
Features
Interviews
Book Launches
Write India
Home & Garden
Fashion Shows
Designers
Trends
Style Guide
Model of the day
Specials
Specials Debate Photos
Videos
ALL
Write India authors on Literary Fiction Lakme Fashion Week Summer 2016: Manish Malhotra Paris Fashion Week: Christian Dior RTW Fall 2016 collection 8 popular Indian food myths busted Herbs every woman must know and start using!
10 flowers that are edible just like any food
1920 London: Screening Bips, Karan leave for honeymoon Celebs attends press meet Song launch Harshali @ Smaaash Sonam @ Prees meet
Claudia Ciesla speaks on fitness and her book Anushka Sharma’s hot sizzling photoshoot Ayushmann Khurrana shares his style mantra Met Gala 2016: Worst dressed celebs Hottest couples at Met Gala 2016 Met Gala 2016: Best dressed celebs
May 8, 2016, 06.23 PM ISTIt's not easy to be Sonam Kapoor.
And it certainly doesn't get easier during Cannes.
Sonam Kapoor, alongwith Aishwarya Rai, will be representing India and L'Oreal as their spokesperson at the red carpet of this years Cannes Film Festival.
The 12-day festival is slated to start from 11th May to 22nd May 2016.
So in anticipation for Sonam and her fashion statement at the Cannes red carpet, we're giving you a sneak peak into how Sonam Kapoor is preparing for the big moment.
"Known for her eclectic style and in-depth knowledge and love, for fashion," stakes will be high for Sonam to prove she's worth it.
Sonam Kapoor in Diogo Miranda suit ahead of her trip to Cannes Film festival
Sonam Kapoor previews her Cannes look ahead of the festival
Sonam Kapoor revealed her secret to glowing skin.
It includes fresh vegetables- Kai-lan (Chinese broccoli), quinoa and coconut water
Sonam Kapoor previewed her Cannes look in a Diogo Miranda pantsuit
Sonam's beauty squad includes Namrata Soni, Rhea Kapoor and L'Oreal makeup of course!
Sonam will be one of the spokesperson for L'Oreal who'll represent the region at Cannes
Will Sonam represent Indian fashion at the Cannes better than last year?
Come 11th May and we'll know for certain
(Image source: Instagram, PTI, Getty, Sonam Kapoor)
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia