1/53
Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan often makes it to the headlines for all the right reasons.
Although the star kid is yet to make his Bollywood debut, he has garnered a huge fan following on social media and rightly so.
Aryan, who looks like a replica of his superstar father is often seen partying with his buddies or amazing us with his antics on social media.
While scrolling through Aryan's images, we came across a picture of the lad flaunting his killer abs, along with his buddies.
Aryan's washboard abs are giving us major fitness goals.
What about you?Move on to the following slide to have a look at other future star kids of Bollywood...
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/PIC-Shah-Rukh-Khans-son-flaunting-his-abs/eventshow/52128757.cmsShah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan often makes it to the headlines for all the right reasons.
Although the star kid is yet to make his Bollywood debut, he has garnered a huge fan following on social media and rightly so.
Aryan, who looks like a replica of his superstar father is often seen partying with his buddies or amazing us with his antics on social media.
While scrolling through Aryan's images, we came across a picture of the lad flaunting his killer abs, along with his buddies.
Aryan's washboard abs are giving us major fitness goals.
What about you?Move on to the following slide to have a look at other future star kids of Bollywood…
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/Shilpa-Shettys-son-Viaans-adorable-reaction-to-a-tortoise/eventshow/51911262.cmsViaan, son of the gorgeous Shilpa Shetty, is probably one of the star kids to watch out for.
The actress is currently in Abu Dabi with husband Raj Kundra and son for a friend’s wedding.
The star shared a cute video of Viaan’s first experience with a tortoise and it is truly adorable to say the least.
The kid is particularly thrilled at seeing a live tortoise up close but is scared too at the same time.
He bravely holds the animal for a few seconds before keeping it down carefully and running off scared!Meanwhile, move on to the following slides to check out other cute Bollywood star kids to watch out...- Rajani Chandel
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/Pic-AbRam-and-Suhana-Khan-make-the-cutest-beach-bums/eventshow/51581942.cmsIt seems Shah Rukh Khan and his kids are having a fun-filled beach holiday away from prying eyes.
In a pic shared on pinkvilla.com, the cute prince AbRam and his sister Suhana, seem like playing hide and seek on the beach.
While, Suhana looks gorgeous in a neon beach wear, it is AbRam that steals the frame as he tries to hide behind his hands and it is just too adorable to be missed.While AbRam sure is a show-stealer in every frame that he’s a part of, move on to check out other cute star kids....
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/PIC-Sridevis-daughter-Jhanvi-Kapoor-is-absolutely-Bollywood-ready/eventshow/51421254.cmsThere is not an ounce of doubt about the fact that Sridevi’s elder daughter Jhanvi Kapoor has it in her to make it big in B-Town.
The young diva has already earned herself the ‘stylista’ tag with her uber cool appearances and super hot style statements.
While speculation around her B-Town debut has been on a high for a very longtime, we happened to come across yet another picture of the gorgeous beauty reinstating her belief that she is absolutely Bollywood ready.
Check out the above picture closely.
Now tell us what’s there to not love!
Jhanvi is currently said to be preparing for her acting career at the The Lee Strasberg Theatre & Film Institute in Los Angeles.
And after this picture, we just can’t wait for her BIG B-Town debut, how about you?While Jhanvi sure has upped our hopes, there’s yet another teen diva who seems to be B-Town ready.
Move on to find out who she is…- Kiran Kaur
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/Amitabh-Bachchans-granddaughter-looks-B-Town-ready/eventshow/51339806.cmsAmitabh Bachchan's granddaughter, Navya Naveli Nanda is a head turner.
Dressed in leather pants, boots and a faux fur jacket, Navya is quite the fashionista.
While the young lady is already generating buzz on social media, her recent picture proves that Navya is all set to take on Bollywood as well.
With her inherent good looks and the oodles of sass that she oozes, Ms Nanda has all the makings of a Bollywood diva.
We can't wait to see the gorgeous lady make her Bollywood debut.
What say?Click on the next slide to read about other B-Town star kids...
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/Are-Akshay-and-Saifs-sons-the-new-Khiladi-Anari-of-B-town/eventshow/51328959.cmsYou may think it's too early to predict anything about young kids or to come to any conclusion as yet.
But going by the way Saif Ali Khan's son Ibrahim and Akshay Kumar's son Aarav have been bonding, one can clearly say that the two young boys will make for a great on-screen guy-pair in the future.
One look at this picture of Ibrahim and Aarav together would take you back to the 90s when Akshay and Saif gave some commercial hits including the popular 'Yeh Dillagi', 'Main Khiladi Tu Anari' and 'Aarzoo'.
In fact, Akshay and Saif's chemistry was so magical that they were given the title of 'The Amitabh-Shashi Kapoor Jodi of the 90s'.
Dressed in casuals, both Ibrahim and Aarav's body language and their comfort level compels you to believe that they share a great camaraderie and if cast as parallel leads in the future, they are expected to create the same magic their superstar dads did almost two decades ago.While the B-town filmmakers are already keeping a close eye on these two probable future stars, read on to know about other star kids to look out for...- Hiten J Trivedi
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/When-Hrehaan-followed-father-Hrithik-Roshans-footsteps/eventshow/51286972.cmsIt seems Hrehaan Roshan is following the footsteps of his superstar father, Hrithik Roshan.
The kid, who is growing fast these days, was clicked doing somersaults on a trampoline by his mother Sussane Khan, who shared the video on Instagram.
The proud mom captioned the video, “My tough rubber band ray❤️ #gymnastinthehouse #watchoutspiderman.” Well, we are not surprised since he is the son of the Indian superhero, Krrish.
The actor is currently busy shooting his hugely awaited period flick, ‘Mohenjo Daro’.
Watch the video here.
While Hrehaan is certainly one star kid to watch out for, click the following slide to know about other such star kiddos…
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/PIC-Sridevi-shares-Janhvis-super-cute-childhood-snap/eventshow/51277130.cmsIt's Janhvi Kapoor's birthday (March 6) and momma Sridevi is showering all her love for her daughter.
On her special day, Sridevi, much to everyone's surprise, shared a super duper cute throwback picture of her adorable daughter on Twitter.
In the picture, the infant Janhvi looks extremely cute in a typical south Indian traditional attire.
Her bald head coupled with kajal in her eyes add on to the cuteness.
All we can say is that Janhvi has surely blossomed into quite a hottie now and it is safe to say that she is ready to enter Bollywood.
For the uninitiated, Janhvi has just turned 19 and is studying.
So, it seems like it will take few more years before the junior Sridevi makes her debut.While Janhvi's super cute picture has left you super impressed, click the next slide to see what Aryan Khan is up to these days...
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/Aryan-Khans-balancing-act-will-surprise-you/eventshow/51267757.cmsShah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan often makes headlines for his chiseled body.
The star kid is a fitness freak and leaves no stones unturned to keep himself fit.
Moreover, he is a black belt and a gymnast.
In the latest video shared on Instagram, Aryan, 19, can be seen doing a headstand on his oxboard.
The Junior Khan seems super comfortable on his blue oxboard and effortlessly balances himself on it too.
/bollywoods-future-star-kids-to-watch-out-for/WATCH-Aryan-Khan-doing-some-serious-back-flips/eventshow/51205651.cmsSo we know that Shah Rukh Khan’s elder son, Aryan Khan is a pretty cool guy with a really hot bod.
One look at the boy’s Instagram pics and you wouldn’t even dream of arguing to that!
Anyway, turns out that the boy has more to his credit… meticulous gymnast skills!
We recently came across a video of Jr Khan that has gone viral, where the boy is seen performing some really serious back flips, the kinds you see in films.
In fact, Aryan does a whole routine that has us thoroughly impressed.
Way to go Mr Khan!Click HERE to check out the awesome video.
While his latest video has us floored, move on to check out another one of his cool selfie…