Kristen Stewart doesn't need your labels.
The Twilight star wants to be part of the change the LGBT community is experiencing, but in her own elusive way, she tells Variety for its latest cover story.
"I had to have some answer about who I was," the 25-year-old actress reveals to the magazine.
"I felt this weird responsibility, because I didn’t want to seem fearful.
But nothing seemed appropriate.
So I was like, 'F**k, how do I define that?’ I’m not going to."
During the freewheeling interview, Stewart also noted that "I find the movement that’s occurring to be so important."
But when asked to clarify if she was referring to the "gay movement," she remained ambiguous.
"Me not defining it right now is the whole basis of what I'm about," she says.
"If you don't get it, I don't have time for you."
Stewart acknowledges that she admires young LGBT people who are resisting labels and embracing sexual fluidity.
"There’s acceptance that’s become really rampant and cool,” she says.
“You don’t have to immediately know how to define yourself."
In March, Stewart and French singer Stephanie Sokolinski were spotted kissing and holding hands while taking a stroll through the streets of Paris, France.
Regarding her relationship with the 30-year-old chanteuse, the actress told the mag, “When I was dating a guy, I would never talk about my relationships to anyone.
I feel the same way now."
"I’m not hiding s**t,” she added.
In fact, Stewart doesn't mind the paparazzi snapping PDA pics if those pics can help young kids struggling with their own sexuality.
"That's really important to me," she explained.
"As much as I want to protect myself, it’s not about hiding.
As soon as you start throwing up so many walls, you cannot see over them yourself, so you just start isolating in a way that’s not honest.
I definitely found where I’m comfortable.
I don’t take credit for that.”
Last year, Stewart set the record straight about her sexuality in another revealing interview.
See the video below for more.
Photo: Getty Images