From a kid admiring Rajinikanth’s mannerisms in Andha Kanoon (the Hindi remake of Telugu film Chattaniki Kallu Levu ) to working alongside him a few decades later for 2.0 , actor Sudhanshu Pandey has come a long way.
Of course he was overjoyed when he was offered the project, he says, adding that he is awaiting the ‘Superstar’ darshan on the sets 2.0 in a few weeks.
“He had such an impact on me as a child.
Amitabh had a style of his own yes, but Rajini’s on-screen charisma makes him a class apart.
There are lots of lessons waiting to be learnt.”
The film (where he plays a scientist) also stars Akshay Kumar as the antagonist, whom he calls his ‘elder brother’.
Sudhanshu’s film career took off with Khiladi 420 because of Akshay.
They later worked in Singh is Kinng too.
“We always have fun on sets.
We talk in Punjabi, crack jokes when we meet,” he says.
2.0 will be a touch different, given that both are in acting in an alien language together for the first time.
Sudhanshu’s Tamil film Indrajeeth, where he plays an archaeological journo, is awaiting release.
Does Sudhanshu prefer roles with negative shades?
His series of choices suggests so.
“The depth in the character matters regardless of the positive or negative parts.
Writers no longer come up with complete black and white characterisations.
Characters are closer to reality now, such that they mirror the shades of grey that every human possesses,” he replies.
Speaking of the television stint that lay the foundation for his career, (he’s acting in the 24 TV series next), Sudhanshu says, “It’s a challenging medium I agree, you stay with a character for a year and a half at least.
But, by the end of six months, you tend to stagnate.
There’s quantity over quality.
People tend to forget you when you’re off air.
Films are of a limited duration but they let you explore more.”
Besides acting, he’s back with the pop music band ‘A Band of Boys’ that was a sensation in the early 2000s.
The five-member group was on a long hiatus due to personal and professional commitments.
“It’s always good to be back.
As we were performing a month ago at a venue, the response was wonderful.
We’re glad our numbers are still popular,” Sudhanshu states.
Now they are not ‘boys’ anymore and the maturity is showing up.
“All our careers in different fields over these years have made us more ready for this,” he explains, sounding exuberant about the band’s future.