He redefined the commercial film format of Telugu cinema with his innovative narrative technique leaving a mark of his own in song picturisation.
Adurthi Subbarao set new parameters for aesthetics within the commercial cinema’s ambit that was later followed and bettered by K. Viswanath.
After two hits in a row — Thodikodallu and Manglayabalam — producer Dukkipati Madhusudana Rao signed Adurthi to complete the auteur’s hattrick of hits for Annapurna Pictures.
Dukkipati had a story in mind.
It was based on an incident in a family known to him.
A childless couple adopted a girl, but once the woman conceived a child, she ill-treated the adopted girl.
With additional characters, a printing press and a medical college backdrop and with advice from Dr. Symala Reddy, an expert from the field of medicine, Dukkipati, Adurthi and his associate director Kasinathuni Viswanath weaved a taut story.
The story writer/ writers were not credited in the titles.
The Story: Rao Bahaddur Venkataramaiah (S.V.
Rangarao) owns a printing press and a magazine.
Vengalappa (Relangi) works for him.
Venkataramaiah and his wife Kanakadurgamma (Suryakantham) adopt a girl Suguna (Baby Sasikala/ Savitri).
After she gives birth to Varalakshmi (Girija), Kanakadurgamma throws Suguna out.
Vengalappa and his wife Santhamma (T.G.
Kamala Devi) raise her.
Suguna joins M.B.B.S.
Chandrasekharam (ANR) a nephew of Vengalappa is also a student of the college.
Suguna gives tuition to Subhadramma’s (Sandhya) son.
Subhadramma’s brother Dr. Raghu (Jaggaiah) returns from London.
Chandram, a chain smoker is afflicted with tuberculosis.
Heeding to Chandram’s words, Suguna marries Dr. Raghu.
Chandram is admitted to the Union Mission Sanatorium in Madanapalle and is cured.
Raghu meets with a fatal accident on his way to receive Chandram.
Bowing to Suguna’s wish, Chandram marries Varalakshmi and steers the press and the magazine towards profit.
Kanakadurgamma sows suspicion in Varalakshmi about Suguna and Chandram’s relationship.
Chandram joins the workers in their fight for bonus.
Venkataramaiah brings in new workers.
While trying to stop the fight between them, Varalakshmi is grievously injured.
Suguna saves her.
The shadows are a thing of the past in their family .
Cast & Crew: Among his productions, D. Madhusudana Rao opines that Velugu Needalu was a totally satisfying film in all aspects of filmmaking.
“While the audience watch a film, the director should not be seen or felt, but his presence must be there everywhere in the film.” This dictum of Hrishikesh Mukherjee suits Adurthi well.
His expertise in presenting human relationships without sounding too melodramatic can be seen in a scene in which Chandram convinces Suguna to marry Dr. Raghu.
Ironically, in a later scene it is the turn of Suguna to ask Chandram to marry Varalakshmi.
Both ANR and Savitri were brilliant in displaying the emotions with subtlety.
Acharya Athreya’s dialogues were apt, to the point and heartwarming.
Athrya stayed at Peechi Dam, Kerala for a month along with assistant director K.V.
Rao to write the dialogues.
For some reason, he left out the comic part which later was filled in by Korrapati Gangadhara Rao, a famed playwright.
P.S.Selavaraj and operative cameraman Pachu’s photography created the right mood throughout and M. S. Money’s slick editing helped.
Dignified portrayals came from SVR, Jaggaiah, Sandhya and Girija.
Suryakantham played the tongue lashing shrew in her signature style.
Relangi’s usage of ‘Srimathe Ramanujayanamaha’ became a catchphrase.
Pendyala Nageswara Rao’s music, Sri Sri and Kosaraju’s lyrics contributed largely to the film’s success.
The super hit songs from Sri Sri’s lyrics were Ghantasala-P. Susheela renditions, ‘ Paadavoyi Bharatheeyudaa… ’(Rajasulochana made a guest appearance as a dancer), ‘ O Rangayo Poola Rangayo …’, ‘ Hayi Hayiga Jabilli… ’ and ‘ Kalakaanidi Viluvainadi… ’ (Ghantasala).
Kosaraju’s ‘ Siva Govinda Govinda… ’ (Madhavapeddi Sathyam) was also well received.
Trivia: Velugu Needalu was the debut film for Akkineni Nagarjuna.
He played the role of ANR and Girija’s son and appears as a baby in the movie.
A song was also filmed on him ( Challani vennela sonalu ..) with Savitri and Girija carrying him on their shoulder and as the song progresses he grew into a small boy who peddles a tricycle and that role was enacted by the film’s assistant director K.V.
Rao’s second daughter Chaya.
For the song, Challani vennela sonalu Pendyala borrowed the tune from noted Bengali composer Sudhin Dasgupta’s 1956 Bengali private song, ‘ kajal kajal kum kum sheuli jhare jhum jhum… ’ rendered by Geeta Dutt.
Padmanabham played the role of ANR’s collage mate and he received the offer unexpectedly when he took some drama contractors on a visit to Vauhini studios.
There he met ANR and Dukkipati.
They were shooting the song, ‘ Kurnoolu yekkada Kakinadekkada… ’ Padmanabham was told to put on makeup and join.
Sri Sri answering a question about the influence of songs in a film, said once he had received a letter from a person who intended to commit suicide that after listening to the song, ‘ kalakaanidi viluvainadi brathuku kanneeti dhaaralalone bali cheyaku …’ he changed his mind.
Velugu Needalu was simultaneously made in Tamil titled, Thooya Ullam with Thangavelu replacing Relangi.
It was the first film to be released at Shanti Theatre, Madras on Pongal day 1961.
It did not do well.
A couple of months later the theatre was acquired by ANR’s close friend and actor Sivaji Ganesan.
Velugu Needalu was released on January 7, 1961 and the hundred day functions were held at Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Rajahmundry.
It is interesting to note that when the unit missed the express train to reach Vizag from Vijayawada, they, including ANR, Savitri and other lead actors and technicians sportingly travelled by ordinary class in a passenger train to attend the function.