1/16
Sunny Leone is one actress who has fought to make her mark in Bollywood and emerged victorious.
The former adult star has always been open about her past career choices, and has never shied away from speaking about them at events and interviews.
The 'Mastizaade' actress recently graced the cover of FHM India and is almost unrecognisable at first glance.
Sunny is seen sporting a blonde wig on the magazine cover.
What's more?
The stunning lady's husband, Daniel Weber is also a part of the spread and together they make for one steamy frame!Click on the next slide to see other sizzling Instagram pictures of Sunny Leone...
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/50010903.cms Sunny Leone's sexy maid act ‪‪Sunny Leone is all set to sizzle the screen in Mastizaade .
However, till that releases, she has another offering for her fans.
The actress is grooving to a new single, that has been composed and sung by Kanika Kapoor.
However, that's not all.
Sunny will be sporting five different looks in the single.
Sunny will be playing a robot, who helps the young boy in his daily routine.
Apart from pulling off the robot act, the sexy siren will be seen as a maid, police woman, gym trainer and a superwoman.
Shying away from revealing much, the actress has shared a picture of herself in the maid costume on her Instagram account.
Click on the next slide to check out Sunny Leone rocking a black bikini...
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/49359978.cms HOT: Sunny Leone's bikini pic is breaking the internet Sunny Leone, who rose to fame with erotic thriller Jism 2 and horror film Ragini MMS2 , definitely knows how to heat up the internet.
Sunny Leone is quite active on the social network.
The actress keeps posting pictures on her social accounts and also responds to her fans directly.
The Baby Doll actress recently shared this picture on Instagram looking absolutely sizzling.
Though her face is not completely visible, the cowboy hat and this lacy and sheer bikini makes the picture ultra sensuous.
Also take a look at Sunny Leone's hot yellow dress, cool shades and dazzling smile...
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/47384689.cmsSunny Leone has begun shooting for the eighth season of the reality show, Splitsvilla .
The actress seems super excited about her second time on the show.
While she had hosted Splitsvilla 7 with Nikhil Chinappa, she will keep Rannvijay Singh company for the eighth one.
The shooting began on the beach and Sunny looked as hot as ever in a sunny yellow number.
Given the time of the year, when the sun is at its scorching best, Sunny sported a high ponytail and some cool shades.
However, it were her earrings that stole the show.
Posting a selfie of herself, Sunny wrote, "Shooing on the beach of Splitsvilla season 8 :) fun fun" [ sic ]Read on to see Sunny in a gorgeous pink dress...
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/46743652.cmsSunny Leone’s left no stone unturned to promote Ek Paheli Leela .
The sexy siren was seen on Comedy Nights With Kapil to promote
the film that also features Jay Bhanushali in a pivotal role.
Sunny, who looks
great in both traditional and western outfits, posted a picture on
Instagram where she is seen flaunting a ruby red outfit designed by Reeti
Arneja.
The caption read, “Thank you @reetiarneja for my awesome outfit for
Kapil Sharma show!!
Loved it!
!” [ sic ]Read on to find out why Sunny Leone had to pull out a
bikini from her personal collection for Ek
Paheli Leela …
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/46321172.cmsIn Ek Paheli Leela , Sunny Leone is seen in three different avatars, one of them being a supermodel.
And the former adult film actress felt so 'close' to this character that she decided to add a personal touch to the role.
A source was quoted in a Mumbai Mirror report as saying that Sunny pulled out a bikini from her personal collection that she had worn in one of her pre-Bollywood films.
The bikini was apparently a Valentine's Day gift from her husband, Daniel Weber.
The bikini in question was required for a peppy number and the makers let Sunny pick one from her own wardrobe as even after numerous trials, none of the options had worked out.
This is when Sunny stepped in with her suggestion and the makers were only too happy to lap it up.
The bikini is apparently Sunny's husband's favourite too.While Sunny completely steals the show in the hot pink number, let's take a look at some of her sizzling Instagram pictures...
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/44938448.cmsSunny Leone raised temperatures with her stunning beach side pictures that she posted on Instagram.
The actress looked stunning in a black bikini.
The black coloured cap and sunglasses added to the already sensuous look.
She posted this picture on Instagram and wrote, "Hanging poolside for mini vaca Bangkok!"
[ sic ]
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/44938460.cmsAfter another scintillating photoshoot, Sunny posted this picture on Instagram.
Glowing in a two-piece bikini, Sunny looked absolutely ravishing.
She wore a shirt over her bikini and got this picture clicked.
"Gorgeous private beach for our shoot!!
New ad film shoot :)," [ sic ] wrote Sunny while posting.
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/44938462.cmsSunny Leone and her husband Daniel Weber went for a vacation to Bangkok.
She has often said that she loves travelling and also has a liking for adventure sports.
She posted this 'lazy' picture before leaving from her vacation spot.
She wrote, "But I don't want to pack!!!
Lol vaca has made me so lazy!!!
Blah."
[ sic ]
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/44938469.cmsSunny Leone loves to call herself a typical Punjabi kudi and this picture vouches for it.
Sunny posted this picture while dining out.
She wrote, "I'm sooo bad hehehehehehehehehehhehrheh!"
[ sic ] In an interview with Times of India, Sunny had said, "I cook a lot.
Actually I cook all the unhealthy food at home.
My husband Daniel is the one who does all the healthy cooking.
When I am allowed to cook all the unhealthy food, I do.
Actually when Daniel and I are together at home, we enjoy cooking together a lot.
Our favourite is the morning time when we can cook together and eat breakfast when it's nice and quiet.
That's our time when it's just him and me and we sip our coffee and so it's our favourite meal of the day."
/sunny-leones-sizzling-instagram-pictures/eventshow/44938487.cmsSunny Leone is quite active on the social network.
The actress keeps posting pictures on her social accounts and also responds to her fans directly.
She posted this picture on Instagram and wrote, "Good night!!!
Hehe."
[ sic ] Looks like Sunny is giving a virtual good night kiss to her fans.