Jodie Sweetin had a (mostly) amazing night on Monday's Dancing With the Stars -- getting her highest score of the season and pulling off an amazing second dance with some fellow contestants -- until things turned south for the Fuller House star.
Sweetin and her pro partner, Keo Motsepe, started the night by finding out they were one of the couples in jeopardy.
Maybe this was the motivation they needed as they came out with a jaw-dropping jive set to Christina Aguilera's "Something's Got a Hold on Me."
The number wowed the judges and the crowd, who couldn't contain their excitement.
The unanimous opinion was that Sweetin and Motsepe's light-hearted routine was the feel-good dance of the night.
For judge Carrie Ann Inaba, it was the couple's "best dance ever" and she gushed that Sweetin's "star continues to rise."
Even Len Goodman and Bruno Tonioli were overjoyed by the "euphoric" performance.
As a reward, the couple got their first perfect score of the season.
Their second dance of the episode, which was Judges Team Up Challenge Week, Sweetin and Motsepe joined up with Nyle DiMarco and pro dancer Peta Murgatroyd to perform an Argentine tango, all while coached by Tonioli.
The number, which saw Sweetin, 36, dancing together with both Murgatroyd and DiMarco, thrilled the crowd and received rave reviews from Tonioli's fellow judges.
Goodman and Inaba gave the performance 10s, while "America" -- meaning voters at home -- gave the score a 9, for a total of 29.
In the end, all the love from the judges couldn't save Sweetin from ending up on the chopping block, alongside NFL star Antonio Brown and Boyz II Men's Wanya Morris.
Despite her stellar scores, Sweetin still ended up getting the axe.
Sweetin handled the elimination with grace and poise, telling co-host Erin Andrews, "I couldn't ask for a better way to say 'thank you' that I got to do this!
I got to go out on all 10s!
That's amazing!"
"I start production on [season 2 of] Fuller House tomorrow morning at 8 a.m.," Sweetin admitted.
For a look at some of Sweetin's past performances on this season of DWTS , check out the video below.
Photo: ABC