Channing Tatum is bringing Magic Mike to Las Vegas!
Teaming up with some ridiculously adorable puppies -- and a number of shirtless men -- the handsome star announced the news in a video on Cosmopolitan.com on Wednesday.
Tatum opened up to ET at the Hearst NewFronts on Wednesday about the scintillating new stage show coming to the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino next March, and dished on how Magic Mike Live is more than just a male revue -- it's an effort to combat sexism.
"For so many years now, I think male revues have told women what they should think is sexy, and when you really look at it, it's kind of misogynistic a little bit," the 36-year-old star shared.
"Like [male dances are] all dominant doctors and lawyers and fireman and construction workers and all women's archetypes are like nurses and maids and subservient things, and we just want to turn all that up on its ear and talk about it and just start a conversation between women and men."
Tatum also revealed that he plans to be very hands on when it comes to building Magic Mike Live into a major entertainment powerhouse.
"Casting, directing, we're gonna do it all," the actor explained.
As for performing in the show itself, Tatum hasn't ruled it out.
"If I'm ever in shape enough to do it again, I absolutely want to do that.
Actually, it would be really fun."
Tatum said he "got the clearance" from his wife, Jenna Dewan Tatum , to strip in the live show, but joked, "Who knows if I'll ever be in that shape again?"
It's not surprising he got the OK from his wife -- after all, the 35-year-old actress apparently appreciated the art form of male dancing during the production of both Magic Mike films.
"She was there when we made the first two movies.
What do you think she was doing?"
Tatum said, laughing.
"Like, she wasn't just watching it.
I can tell you that."
Recently, the actor and his wife of six years celebrated his birthday with a trip to the woods .
While they didn't share any pictures of b-day lap dances, the two couldn’t have looked happier hanging out in nature.
The couple brought their 2-year-old daughter, Everly, along for the vacay, and even adopted a rescue horse named Cajun that Tatum rode through the forest.
"I'm really blessed.
We have a nice little, crazy little family life that's super simple," said Tatum, who also revealed that he and his wife plan on expanding their family "someday."
Playing EXCLUSIVE: Channing Tatum Talks 'Magic Mike Live' in Las Vegas, Dishes on 'Blessed' Family Life