One artist was eliminated in tonight’s The Voice results show, and the remaining eight singers will compete in next week’s semifinal performances.
As usual, the bottom two artists, based on last night’s voting and iTunes downloads, had the chance to sing live for the audience instant save.
Carson Daly opened the night by checking in with coaches Christina Aguilera, Adam Levine, Pharrell and Blake Shelton.
Aguilera noted that it’s difficult to choose the right songs for her team.
Despite her song-selection fears, Aguilera has definitely been doing the best job as a coach when it comes to finding the right songs for her remaining artists.
Next, Daly brought the top 9 to the stage to announce the first round of results.
The first artist to advance to next week’s semifinal was Team Pharrell’s only remaining artist Hannah Huston.
It looks like Pharrell still has a shot at winning this season.
After Huston advanced, James Bay took the stage to perform “Let It Go,” a single from his debut album Chaos and the Calm .
Daly then brought the artists back to the stage to deliver more good news: America saved Team Christina’s Bryan Bautista, who really stood out last night with his performance of Beyoncé’s “1+1.” After the nationwide vote, Team Blake’s soulful singer Adam Wakefield also advanced to the semifinal.
Next, The Voice promoted the upcoming Lonely Island movie Popstar: Never Stop Popping with a video montage in which Andy Samberg’s character in the movie, disgraced popstar Conner, provides sage advice to the top 9.
It felt a little too stiff, but Samberg is an entertaining presence.
After the video, Samberg and Adam Levine performed the song “I’m So Humble,” which will be featured in the movie.
It was a fun performance, even though the whole thing felt like a prolonged advertisement for the movie.
The six remaining singers then came out to the stage again to hear the next round of results.
Daly announced that America voted to save Team Adam’s Laith Al-Saadi, who broke free of his usual guitar-heavy performances last night to perform a ballad at the piano.
Apparently, his switch-up worked, and viewers responded by voting him through to the semifinal.
America also saved Team Blake’s Mary Sarah, who wasn’t one of the most exciting artists last night but did effectively showcase her abilities as a country artist capable of blending the classic with the contemporary.
She is obviously resonating with country fans, just as Shelton predicted.
As it came time for Daly to announce the bottom two singers, the four remaining contestants took the stage.
After the nationwide vote, Team Christina’s Alisan Porter advanced to the semifinal.
That wasn’t a surprise, considering the fact that Porter has seemed destined for the final ever since her Blind Audition.
America also saved Team Adam’s Shalyah Fearing, who had an incredible night last night when she sang “A Change Is Gonna Come.”
That left Team Blake’s Paxton Ingram and Team Christina’s Nick Hagelin to sing for the instant save.
For the second week in a row, Hagelin, who was Aguilera’s comeback artist, had to sing for the save.
Ingram took the stage first, singing Sam Smith’s version of “How Will I Know” by Whitney Houston.
It was the perfect choice for Ingram, who is one of the most innovative artists Shelton has had on his team in a while.
Ingram managed to top his performance from last night.
He gave an emotional and vocally impressive performance that played to his strengths.
“That is the way to sing to save yourself,” Pharrell said, adding that Ingram showed no fear in his earnest and powerful ballad.
Hagelin took the stage next to sing “Change The World” by Eric Clapton.
There’s something about Hagelin that’s almost too sweet.
He seems over-produced and inauthentic, and that was especially evident in his instant-save performance tonight.
For the second week in a row, his vocals just didn’t sound that strong in this critical moment.
The coaches, however, praised the artist for his performance abilities.
The eventual results of the instant save were not surprising.
Ingram advanced to the semifinal, while Hagelin finally went home for the second time.
What did you think of tonight’s results?
The semifinalists will work with Pink this week to get their voices ready for the next round of performances.
The VoiceAdam Levine May 10, 2016
6:14pm PT by
Kayla Kumari Upadhyaya
Pink will help prepare the remaining artists for next week's live performances.
Kayla Kumari Upadhyaya
THRnews@thr.com