Sarah Jessica Parker's white Monse suit at the 2016 Met Gala was one of the most controversial looks on the red carpet, with plenty of people confused about how her old-school getup fit this year's technology theme.
The 51-year-old actress explains her outfit in her own words in a piece for T Magazine , admitting that she felt this year's theme was more difficult than previous ones.
"This year's theme, 'Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology,' is far more challenging than themes of years past, mostly in terms of how I wanted to express it as I understood it," Parker says.
"It wasn't as straightforward as past themes, like the era of punk in fashion or examining Chinese culture in fashion.
What is technology?
And what does it mean when applied to fashion?
We didn't want to simply apply lights and actual, physical technology on me.
We didn't want it to be about the electronic screen or something that could turn on and off.
We wanted it to be about the technology of thought, of application, of fabrication.
The technology of the hand and the machine."
Photo: Getty Images
Parker specifically wanted to wear trousers this year instead of a typical dress, and was inspired by the Broadway smash Hamilton -- particularly, the men's costumes.
"All of a sudden, I was like: 'Oh, that’s it,'" she recalls.
"It was such a specific time, and I was curious how we could use technology with that.
What would the technology part of the idea be?
[Monse designer] Fernando Garcia introduced us to these embellishment artists in Brooklyn called Le Studio Anthost, who take the idea of old-fashioned couture embroidery and, with technology, apply it to fabrications using paint.
It was the perfect marriage of technology and the hand of man.
Together, we were able to really collaborate and meticulously look at the period and redefine what it was that we were trying to achieve."
Although the look is undeniably masculine, Parker did rock a corset with a sexy open back.
Photo: Getty Images
"The corset has very feminine framework and detailing, but in terms of overall silhouette and idea, we kept it pretty true to masculine notes without it feeling forced," Parker says.
The Met Gala pro acknowledges that it takes a whole team to create her always memorable looks at the A-list event.
"I feel very fortunate to work with such a dedicated and loyal team for the Met Gala every year," Parker says.
"We all function together like a single organism.
It may just be me on the carpet, but there’s a whole system of people working together behind the scenes, like the gears of a machine."
ET caught up with Parker at the Met Gala red carpet on Monday, when she said Monse designers Garcia and Lauren Kim had been "working feverishly" for an entire week on her final look.
"The week before, I took my daughters to see Hamilton and I was still sort of pondering how I could sort this theme out," she told ET special correspondent Joe Zee.
"And I was looking at the men's suiting and I was like, 'That's it.'
So it's true 1760s."
"I have never had the opportunity to have this direct of a collaboration [with designers Garcia and Kim], so it's been lovely," she added.
Watch the video below to check out the 13 weirdest looks from this year's Met Gala.
Photo: Getty Images