“You have to stop me at any time, otherwise I will just continue.
Earlier, I used to do pitches about my company.
I feel so much for this concept that the talking doesn’t stop,” warns Ankit Bakshi as he starts the conversation.
He is gung-ho about Green Room Diaries, the first online property launched as part of Break a Leg.
Green Room Diaries showcases theatre personalities narrating their journey and theatre experiences.
“Break a Leg is an initiative/idea started to develop content and references around theatre,” shares Ankit.
He points out that people have extreme notions about theatre.
“The common perception is that theatre is elitist and a page 3 socialising event or a khadi jhola kind of event.
Corporate people who balance their day jobs and theatre do not fit into either of these mentalities.
Also, there is a disconnect between the audience and artist.
Artistes working on plays focus on their art and are not bothered about the audience turn out,” he states.
He gives the example of social media and how artistes connect with the youth through it.
“When a music artiste uploads his song on SoundCloud or You Tube, his song reaches aficionados.
Next time, when he gives a live performance, there are around 10,000 people who already know him and his song.
It is the same with stand-up comedians who put their bits online and become stars.
I wondered why we can’t do the same thing for theatre.
Since we can’t shoot plays and show online, the idea was to develop stories around theatre,” he recalls, adding that Green Room Diaries does just that.
Ankit’s love for theatre grew gradually; he was studying engineering when he realised he wanted to do something with films/media.
“I realised I was not interested in engineering and tried my hands at everything,” he laughs.
While he is now a member of Dramanon Theatre group, he started out working with media agencies and by the time he graduated, he set up his own video production company, Laputa Media which develops video content for brands, businesses and corporates.
The pilot episode of Green Room Diaries was done with Atul Kumar who came to Hyderabad for the The Hindu MetroPlus Theatre Festival.
“The shooting was done in a green room as it was the only place where light was available.
Hence the name Green Room Diaries,” he reminisces.
With interesting narration and sleek production values, Green Room Diaries features 18 theatre personalities like Neil Bhoopalam, Ira Dubey, Rajit Kapur, Shernaz Patel, and Karthik till now.
The latest video features Shriya Pilgoankar (who was also seen in SRK’s Fan ) .
What are the questions he asks?
“One common question I ask is ‘Is theatre a dying art form or an evolving one.
People don’t like to answer this question but it is important for those especially from theatre to answer, because it inspires an aspiring theatre actor.
Everybody has a different perception.
They all assert that theatre is here to stay but everybody has a different reasoning.
Some say theatre is human connection so it can’t die.
Some say we are not answering this; ‘what kind of stupid question is that or this itself is a dying question and stop asking it,” he recalls with laugh and adds, “I don’t dwell deep because people know their stories anyway.” Questions like how do you improve theatre and specific to that individual can also be seen in the video.
Ankit promises lots of fun with Vinay Pathak’s video to be uploaded soon.
The videos are released once every fortnight.