Sarah Jessica Parker Continues to Defend Met Gala Look: "I Go Through Exhaustive Detail" to Understand Event's Theme
Presented By &
As a fashion designer, Sarah Jessica Parker has a lot of feelings about clothes, shoes and trends—especially when it comes to her personal style.
The former Sex and the City star attended the 2016 Met Gala Monday wearing an outfit inspired by Hamilton , the blockbuster Broadway musical.
The white outfit featured flounce sleeves and a large cameo necklace.
Unfortunately, SJP was one of a few celebrities who were criticized by a fashion blogger for not following the theme.
According to the shoe designer, however, that is not true.
"Got the memo.
Always welcome thoughts but I'm a stickler for the theme and pay close attention to what it means.
Every year with great consideration, research and conviction," Parker commented on the photo that called her, Madonna and Diane Von Furstenberg out.
"The understanding of man and machine, how they intersect, when and why is what we considered.
Perhaps you weren't aware of the technology used in the details and embellishments of the design.
Or perhaps you simply didn't like what I wore which is completely fine but you can't accuse me of not paying close attention and adhering to the theme.
With respect and warmest regards, sj."
Andrew H. Walker/REX/Shutterstock
Wednesday morning the Divorce actress appeared on The View where she once again defended her colonial look and the event.
"I think it's one of the great cultural institutions in the world never mind the city...I think the theme in my case, I take that theme incredibly seriously.
I research it.
I go to exhaustive detail to understand the meaning of the theme," she told the co-hosts.
"The world is such now that everyone gets to have an opinion, and isn't that wonderful?
We live in a democracy and all sorts of people can say all sorts of things, and it just isn't a great way to spend your time worrying about what people say or trying to fix it or make it better.
It's perfectly all right."
And a silence fell over the haters.