Meet Tokyo Toni, mother of newly engaged and newly pregnantBlac Chyna !
The 44-year-old, whose real name is Shalana Jones-Hunter, is originally from Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic, but now calls Washington, D.C.
Here are 5 things you need to know about her:
1.
She's excited to be a grandma
Tokyo Toni was so enthusiastic about Chyna and Rob Kardashian 's baby news , she took to social media right away to express her best wishes.
"I just got off the phone with my daughter, Blac Chyna, and son-in-law-to-be Rob," Toni said in an Instagram video on Friday.
"They told me, 'You're about to be a grandma.'
"
Toni continued: "I am super excited for them and I cannot wait for this new addition the family.
As well, I'd like to congratulate the other side of the family, the Kardashians and Jenners.
Congratulations guys – we're having a baby!"
2.
She's a big fan of Rob Kardashian
Don't go poking around for any Tokyo Toni/Rob Kardashian feuds!
Toni is a big supporter of Chyna's fiancé, showing her love for him in a recent Facebook post .
"This guy is fire!!"
Toni wrote.
"He treats Chyna like a Freaking Queen on a Throne."
She added: "I really do enjoy his presence and humor!"
3.
She's had a rocky relationship with husband Marcellus Hunter
While Toni may support Blac Chyna and Rob's relationship, she has had some tough times of her own with husband Marcellus Hunter.
Back in July 2013 , Hunter was granted an order of protection with Maryland's Prince George County District Court after claiming his wife threatened to "crack" his head open and leave him in a landfill.
"Shalana is violent when angry," the 46-year-old claimed in his reports.
"She often tries to start a physical altercation.
I have hundreds of texts.
Threats to come to my job and get me fired.
Threats to 'crack my head open' if I return to my home.
Threats to leave me in a landfill.
I want the threats to stop.
I want her out of my home...She has already cut up my clothes!"
The order of protection – which also extended to Hunter's daughter – was in effect until August 2014.
The couple apparently have worked out their differences since.
"The funny part is he better not try again LOL," she wrote.
"He stayed out nine days in a row without calling home so what did you think I was going to write him a fairytale story and kiss him goodnight, no b----."
4.
She runs her own company
Toni's Facebook page lists her occupation as the Chief Executive Officer of On my Grind Entertainment and Promotions, LLC – a company that sets out to " work hard, entertain our friends, and just plain have fun ."
Before that, Toni was a U.S. Army soldier and took on gigs at talent agency Movie Extra A List Talent and broadcast station EOTM Radio and Media.
Take a look at any of Tokyo Toni's social media pages and you'll see video after video, many of them gushing about Chyna's successes.
Lately, she's been on a mission to help the homeless, encouraging her 86,200 followers to donate money to charity.
That positivity also shines through in posts where Toni focuses on life advice, trying to inspire those around her.
"Keep grinding," she exclaimed in one post .
"Use me for a EXCELLENT EXAMPLE!!
I complained but I got it accomplished!!
You can do the same!!
Keep focused family!!
Be thankful for all you have and don't have!"
Blac Chyna (left) and Tokyo Toni
05/08/2016 AT 08:10 AM EDT