Hiren Kotwani While Hindi cinema has seen interesting content of late, it’s unusual to come across a film that conveys a message of national significance.
However, 'Traffic', which features Manoj Bajpayee, Jimmy Sheirgill, Prosenjit Chatterjee, Parambrata Chatterjee, Divya Dutta Amol Parashar and Vishal Singh, highlights the ‘green corridor initiative — an emergency road transfer of donor organs from one hospital to the other.
| TNN | May 5, 2016, 01.00 AM ISTWhile Hindi cinema has seen interesting content of late, it's unusual to come across a film that conveys a message of national significance.
However, 'Traffic', which features Manoj Bajpayee, Jimmy Sheirgill, Prosenjit Chatterjee, Parambrata Chatterjee, Divya Dutta Amol Parashar and Vishal Singh, highlights the 'green corridor initiative — an emergency road transfer of donor organs from one hospital to the other.
Manoj plays a traffic constable who is on a mission to transfer a donor's heart from Mumbai to a patient in Pune.
Conceding that he had never thought such a film could be made, he says, "When you watch it, you'll realise what goes inside ambulances.
It's a matter of life and death not just for the patient, but also for their family members."
Asked about the experience of working with director, late Rajesh Pillai, who had also helmed the original 'Traffic' in Malayalam, the National Award winner recalls that 'he was like a baby'.
He reminisces, "Once we did five takes of a shot, after which there wasn't much light.
We thought they would retain one of the shots, but I was surprised to see Rajesh crying as he wasn't happy with it.
I hugged him and told him that I would come the next morning and do it all over again.
His passing away numbed us."
Deepak Dhar, CEO, Endemol Shine India, which is producing 'Traffic', adds, "Rajesh's loss was like losing the captain of the ship while we were still on the journey."
Manoj Bajpayee: I have very minimal dialogues in ‘Traffic' Actor Manoj Bajpayee says his role as a traffic constable in his film, ‘Traffic' has very less dialogues -almost all of which is shown in the trailer!
Explaining why the film features an ensemble cast, Deepak states, "We were keen on Manoj playing the constable as he has a pivotal role.
We didn't want a typical cast, so we roped in actors from different parts of India.
While Manoj, Jimmy and Divya are from Mumbai, Prosenjit and Parambrata are from Kolkata and Richa Panai is from the South.
"Manoj also donated reflective jackets to traffic cops when he heard about the risks they take in the line of duty.
He elaborates, "I was moved when I heard that many of them don't have these jackets."
The movie has not only got support from the Mumbai Traffic Police, but also from superstars like Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan.
Buoyed by this encouragement, Deepak concludes, "We are celebrating the journey of cops, so their support is organic.
It's good to have the industry's support, too."
'Traffic', produced by Endemol Shine India in partnership with Fox Star Studios, releases on May 6.
Listen to Manoj Bajpayee's songs on Gaana.com Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia