We will never know just how wrong we were about Donald Trump .
Did he have a 1 percent chance to win when he descended the escalator of Trump Tower last June?
Twenty percent?
Or should we have known all along?
Was Trump's victory a black swan, the electoral equivalent of World War I or the Great Depression: an unlikely event with complex causes, some understood at the time but others overlooked, that came together in unexpected ways to produce a result that no one could have reasonably anticipated?
Or did we simply underestimate Trump from the start?
Did we discount him because we assumed that voters would never nominate a reality-TV star for president, let alone a provocateur with iconoclastic policy views like his?
Did we put too much stock in "the party decides," a theory about the role of party elites in influencing the outcome of the primary process?
The answer, as best I can tell, is all of the above.
I do think we — and specifically, I — underestimated Trump.
There were bad assumptions, misinterpretations of the data, and missed connections all along the way.
But I also think Trump was a tremendous long shot when he entered the race, and even for months thereafter.
Victory wasn't inevitable — and it took a lot to go his way.
If there was anything that should have signaled that "this time would be different" from the very start, it was 17: the number of Republican candidates who entered the race.
The sheer number of them kept many donors and officials on the sideline, waiting to see who would emerge as a strong contender.
It diffused whatever power the "party elite" had to influence the outcome.
It created a huge collective action problem, in which none of the Republican candidates had a clear incentive to attack Trump — just their rivals for their niche of the Republican Party.
The effect was to legitimize Trump as an ordinary candidate and damage the others.
And at just about every stage, there were too many candidates to mount a truly effective anti-Trump effort.
By New Hampshire, there were still nine.
In South Carolina, there were six.
On Super Tuesday, there were five.
The race made it to three candidates only once two-thirds of all of the delegates to the Republican convention had been awarded.
Maybe Trump really did have a ceiling of support at various stages.
There was evidence for it in public polling and in the actual results.
We'll never know.
Another result of the large field was that Trump's opposition was always far less organized and underfunded than it would otherwise have been.
A candidate like Marco Rubio never had a chance to take advantage of the benefits that usually accompany elite support; he didn't have time.
It was clear from the start that Jeb Bush was a weak establishment front-runner.
I never thought much of Rubio's chances.
And Scott Walker, on paper the best of the bunch, quickly raised doubts about his preparedness.
John Kasich was strong enough to prevent Rubio from consolidating the center-right of the Republican Party, costing him states like Virginia on Super Tuesday.
But he wasn't strong enough to become a plausible contender in his own right.
In the end, Kasich was strong enough only to block a viable mainstream candidate, leaving Cruz as the sole remaining candidate to defeat Trump.
I think we got a lot wrong about Trump, but I think we nailed Cruz.
He was strongly opposed by party elites and had so little appeal to voters who didn't consider themselves "very conservative" that he couldn't win the nomination.
It was a lucky break for Trump.
Who knows what would have happened if Rubio hadn't stumbled in that debate ahead of New Hampshire, and took second instead of Kasich.
Perhaps Kasich and Bush would have left the race, allowing Rubio to consolidate the center-right of the party — and maybe even win it all?
We'll never know.
— Blue-State Republicans
In recent cycles, blue-state Republicans had backed the establishment against conservative candidates.
They were a big reason I believed that an establishment-backed candidate had an advantage against a conservative outsider, despite the turn toward Tea Party conservatives in Congress.
Polling data showed these voters were well educated and moderate — natural allies for the establishment.
To some extent, this view has been vindicated.
Cruz, this year's conservative outsider, was pummeled in the blue states.
But it was completely wrong in a far more important sense: The Republicans in these states were no allies of the establishment, at least not against Trump.
The blue-state Republicans gave him his first win in New Hampshire, and later, they put him over the top.
This could just be the result of a simple analytical error: conflating opposition to ideologically consistent conservatives with an affinity for establishment-backed candidates.
Or perhaps they would have voted against Trump if someone other than Cruz had been the principal opponent to Trump.
Either way, I thought the party's establishment could count on these voters, and instead they were among Trump's strongest backers in the end.
There's an important lesson here: These aren't liberal or moderate Rockefeller Republicans.
These are voters who showed a surprising tolerance for Trump's extreme comments on immigration, women and other issues.
— Overestimating the Elite
I didn't consider myself that much of a "the party decides" disciple at the beginning of the race, but I was sure of one thing: It would be extraordinarily hard to win if a candidate were deemed unacceptable by the party's elected officials, donors and operatives.
Such a candidate would lack the resources and staff to run an effective campaign.
He or she would face both a chorus of vocal opposition from credible leaders and a well-financed fight to the end.
In the end, Trump didn't face many of the challenges that outsiders usually do.
His limited resources were irrelevant — he had unlimited free media.
His weakness at delegate-selection conventions could have cost him the nomination, but he ultimately won enough contests to ensure victory.
An even bigger surprise was the complete failure of Republican elites to firmly and consistently denounce Trump.
It's why I thought he was done after his comments dismissing John McCain's status as a war hero; I thought a "chorus of Republican criticism of his most outrageous comments and the more liberal elements of his record" would follow, but it simply didn't.
I did not expect that the party would cede its biggest prize to an outsider who had so many dissenting policy views and who faced so many questions about his fitness for the presidency.
Maybe because I never cared much about pop culture and don't watch much television, I never would have guessed that Trump would be able to sustain nonstop dominance of television media for the entire campaign season.
The tremendous news media coverage of Trump was a big reason he looked like a "boom, bust" candidate, like Herman Cain in 2012.
But Trump's media coverage, the fuel of his rise from the start, never faded.
Trump benefited from party rules and a calendar that made it far easier for him to win the nomination.
If the Republicans had delegate rules like those of the Democrats, Trump would not yet be the nominee.
He would be counting on superdelegates.
He was also helped by this year's calendar.
Two-thirds of all of the delegates were awarded in the 45 days after Iowa, making it important for the party to narrow the field quickly in a year when it was not positioned to do so.
Even when it looked as if Rubio might benefit from unified Republican support, he had only a week for fundraising and to try to build a strong organization before Super Tuesday.
With the calendar from 2012, he would have had five weeks.
— Perhaps Above All Else ...
We were just overconfident.
There haven't been very many presidential elections in the modern era of primaries.
There certainly haven't been enough to rule out the possibility that a true outsider could win the nomination, even if it seemed very incongruent with what had happened in the post-reform era.
That's a lesson to keep in mind heading into the general election.