Sylvester Stallone is headed for Netflix.
The streaming giant has ordered a new global competition series that hails from the Rocky star and recent Oscar nominee, it was announced Monday.
Ultimate Beastmaster is described as the first international competition series of its kind.
The project includes six customized local versions featuring local languages, competitors and hosts from each competing country.
That list includes the U.S., Brazil, South Korea, Mexico, Germany and Japan.
The event series will feature 18 competitors from each country for a total of 108.
Each of the 10 hourlong episodes will see 12 competitors, two from each country, as they take their shot at running one of the most physically demanding obstacle courses ever crafted, titled "The Beast."
At the end of every hour, a "Beastmaster" is crowned and, in the season finale, the nine individual winners will compete against each other to try to become the "Ultimate Beastmaster."
The hosts for the various countries include former football player and Brooklyn Nine-Nine star Terry Crews, along with Extra TV and Fox Sports' Charissa Thompson.
Other hosts include Anderson Silva (UFC Middleweight Champion) and Rafinha Bastos (comedian, journalist and TV personality) for Brazil; Seo Kyung Suk (actor, comedian and TV host) and Park Kyeong Rim (actress, comedian and TV host) for South Korea; Ines Sainz (journalist, sportscaster & TV host) and Luis Ernesto Franco (actor and producer) for Mexico; Hans Sarpei (former soccer player, TV personality) and Luke Mockridge (comedian) for Germany; and Sayaka Akimoto (actress) and Yuji Kondo (sports anchor) for Japan.
Stallone, who is also an exec producer on the freshman NBC competition series Strong, will also be featured on the series.
He exec produces with Dave Broome ( Strong, The Biggest Loser ).
25/7 Productions will produce the series.
"The invitation to partner with Netflix and mega-producer Dave Broome on this revolutionary concept was an opportunity I couldn’t resist,” Stallone said.
"The world will watch in awe as amazing competitors from around the globe overcome grueling physical challenges — and in the process become champions and heroes.
The course is unequaled in its daring creation and I am excited to be a part of it."
Added Netflix vp, international originals Erik Barmack: “As a global internet TV network, Netflix can uniquely create a compelling event that pits great competitors from six countries against one another, with commentators that audiences from these countries love and then unleash all of the episodes, at once, in multiple languages for our members to enjoy no matter where they are.
With Sylvester Stallone and Dave Broome at the helm, it’s going to be outrageously fun.”
Netflix May 09, 2016
8:05am PT by
Kate Stanhope
'Ultimate Beastermaster' will feature contestants from countries around the globe.