The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills concludes its three-part, season six reunion special on Tuesday night, and for star Lisa Vanderpump, the finale couldn't come soon enough.
"Hallelujah!"
Vanderpump told ET about the reunion wrapping up.
"It was just such an awful season.
I felt like I was under attack."
According to Vanderpump, co-star Lisa Rinna might have been the No.
1 culprit for making the season so unpleasant for her.
"She might as well have hit me with a baseball bat on the head," Vanderpump said.
During the RHOBH reunion, Rinna accused Vanderpump of trying to manipulate the storyline to focus on Yolanda Foster's Lyme disease.
"We're at my birthday, and you came … I was thrilled to see you," Rinna told Foster, recalling her birthday episode at Il Cielo.
"You came with no makeup.
You left.
[Vanderpump's husband] Ken had said you looked terrible, and [my husband] Harry said, 'You know what?
That's not OK.
This woman is sick, and we need to stand by her.'"
"Ken didn't say she looked terrible to her face … he was observing that she didn't look good," Vanderpump challenged Rinna, defending her husband.
Rinna continued: "Harry said, 'We need to support this woman whether she's sick or not.'
... And you go, 'There goes our f**king storyline.'"
In her interview with ET, Vanderpump denied the manipulation accusations, implying that Rinna tried to make her a scapegoat for her actions.
"It's kind of ridiculous, really," Vanderpump said.
"They're 50-something-year-old women.
How can they be manipulated?
...
It's a poor excuse.
Own your stuff."
While her relationship with Rinna has appeared to be on the rocks during the reunion, Vanderpump's friendship with Kyle Richards seems to be stronger than ever.
"Kyle and I, we've been through so much," she shared.
"We're kind of the last two men standing -- so to speak -- of the original cast, and it's been an incredible journey.
We've had our ups and downs, but it was a good season for us."
Despite the ups and downs, Vanderpump appreciates the platform that RHOBH has given her to spread awareness about causes she's passionate about, like her Vanderpump Dog Foundation , which is dedicated to improving the lives of dogs globally.
"I just absolutely love [dogs]," said Vanderpump, who lives with eight dogs.
"I think they are truly a man's best friend.
What we see now and what they are capable of -- the post-traumatic stress syndrome dogs, the arson dogs, the cancer-detecting dogs -- they are really incredible animals, so I have a passion for them."
In October, RHOBH rolled cameras on Vanderpump's protest to end the Yulin Dog Meat Festival in China's Guangxi province, where thousands of dogs are killed for their meat.
"The fact that [Bravo] showed Yulin was really remarkable, because it's hard for them to get involved in something that is political," Vanderpump noted.
As for whether Vanderpump will return to RHOBH , it looks like she's keeping her options open for now.
"I'm going to be ambiguous on this one, because nothing has been decided yet," Vanderpump said.
"And, for the most part, I've had an amazing time.
It's given me so many incredible platforms."
The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills airs Tuesday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on Bravo.
Playing EXCLUSIVE: Lisa Vanderpump Says Lisa Rinna 'Might as Well Have Hit Me With a Baseball Bat on the Head'