After a year and a half of performing on Broadway, Finding Neverland has found its end.
The Harvey Weinstein-produced musical will play its final performance at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater ‪on Sunday, Aug. 21 , Weinstein tells The Hollywood Reporter.
"Night after night the audiences’ love for the show has been so inspiring," says Weinstein in a statement. "
Neverland will be beginning its around-the-world tour starting in the U.S. in October, then London in Spring of 2017 and Asia in 2018."
Though the live theatrical production is closing on Broadway, Weinstein reveals, "I’m excited to announce that we will be producing Finding Neverland the musical as a film."
The stage property was adapted from the 2004 Johnny Depp film of the same name, which Weinstein released under his former Miramax banner.
When it closes in August, Finding Neverland will have played 33 previews and 565 performances.
The New York production has grossed $54.4 million to date, but has not yet recouped its investors' money.
"We believe the tour will help us recoup and London will be the profits," Weinstein tells THR in an interview.
While exact capitalization figures for Finding Neverland have not been disclosed, the show is estimated to have cost in the region of $20 million.
It came to Broadway from a successful tryout at the American Repertory Theatre in Cambridge, Mass., following an abortive earlier attempt to mount the show in England.
The cast and creative team on that incarnation were replaced before the musical's U.S. premiere.
Business was strong in its initial months on Broadway, regularly earning north of $1 million a week.
However, box office began tapering off in the fall, aside from notable hikes over holiday periods.
"We did great in summers and holidays," Weinstein says.
"But we didn't seem to get that New York theater audience in the fall and Spring."
The U.S. national tour will launch ‪Oct.
11 at Shea’s Buffalo Theatre in Buffalo, New York and play in 50 cities in over 77 weeks.
The London production will launch in Spring 2017.