Sidharth Malhotra, Jacqueline Fernandez start shooting for their new action film
Nargis Fakhri : With Pak being in my blood, I would look at opportunities to travel there
Arjun Kapoor loves defying odds
Akshay Kumar says that Bollywood makes songs as per what people like
Ranveer Singh turns multilingual for MAMI
Gulshan Grover hates people who crib about their profession
Arjun Kapoor: Audience is loving me and no one can write me off
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party Pics: Canada Wildfire Celebs at airport
Haryana government renames Gurgaon as 'Gurugram' Consider shifting some IPL matches out of Pune: HC to BCCI Rahul Gandhi mocks PM Modi's 'Swachh India' initiative Mehbooba Mufti meets Rajnath Singh, discusses NIT issue Handwara: Two youths killed in firing by security forces during a protest Kerala HC bans 'noise-making' fireworks at night in places of worship Kangana on legal battle with Hrithik: Slut-shaming
won’t work with me Bipasha, Karan announce April 30 as their W-Day
Actress Shraddha Kapoor says she wants to work with filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali.
IANS | May 9, 2016, 12.53 PM ISTShraddha Kapoor (BCCL)Actress Shraddha Kapoor says she wants to work with filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali.
"There are many filmmakers with whom I want to work and I am waiting for them to offer a film.
I am waiting to work with Sanjay Leela Bhansali.
It's my dream to work with him and I hope that happens.
I love his cinema," Shraddha told IANS.
Shraddha Kapoor turns daredevil!
Shraddha Kapoor turns daredevil!
The actress, who is currently termed as one of the most successful actresses in Bollywood, thanks to her films like 'Aashiqui 2', 'Ek Villain' and 'Haider', had a low phase in her career when she started off.
When asked how the industry reacted when she delivered a flop film like 'Teen Patti', she said: "That time, things were different.
Post 'Teen Patti', nobody was easily offering films and it was difficult to let people believe in me after coming out of an unsuccessful film.
But there were few people who believed in me including Mohit Suri, director of 'Aashiqui 2'.
""It feels nice that people now want to work with me.
The best part of the actor is to get the love of the audience," she added.
Shraddha is currently seen in Tiger Shroff starrer 'Baaghi'.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia