As this year marks 60 years of relations between India and Spain, the upcoming International Indian Film Academy (IIFA) testifies that cinema acts as a bond between countries poles apart in terms of culture.
As the red carpet will roll on a grand scale at Madrid from June 23 to 26, there will be not only the usual dose of star power, razzmatazz but also the much in demand Salman Khan, Hrithik Roshan, Priyanka Chopra, Deepika Padukone and Sonakshi Sinha doing live acts on the stage.
And Farhan Akhtar and Shahid Kapoor have been entrusted with the task of making who’s who of the film industry laugh with their wisecracks.
With Farhan as co-host, the audience would get guessing whether to laugh or remain serious as he would oscillate between humour-laced dialogues uttered with deadpan expression to serious facts about the background of the event.
Not the one to take up any job lightly, the actor, who was in the Capital for the announcement, would try to improve upon his previous act at the global platform.
Giving a peep into his unconventional thought process, Farhan says, “We have to build on our past act.
We cannot repeat what we have already done before.
So we have to keep them (jokes) cool, contemporary and retain our kind of humour.”
On how he would make the customary hosting interesting, Farhan says, “Everyone would be enjoying the show while Shahid and I would be toiling.
I look forward to hosting with Shahid.
We hosted the 14 IIFA celebrations in the United States and had a wonderful time.
We work with a lot of ease.
And the chemistry we share with each other comes through during our acts.
If any producer or director is listening then they can come forward and give us a role in their film (laughs)”.
Commenting on the location, the actor says: “I am excited to relive the experience and spread the magic of Bollywood.
Personally, I enjoy being in Spain; we made Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara and thoroughly enjoyed filming in different locations in Spain.”
On the social causes, Farhan says, “The biggest social work IIFA has done is the green campaign.
But I feel that this is the best platform for creating awareness about social causes.”
Commenting on the major announcements about the awards, Anil Kapoor, who has been the mascot of IIFA, says: “Each time I am amazed by its grandeur and the effort that goes into making it.
This year, we have a great line-up of artists who will entertain you with some amazing performances.”
On the films in reckoning for the coveted award, Anil says: “More than three or four films have made an impact.
We have had good films.
At times films with excellent content do not get awards.
I can give you example of Dil Dhadakne Do, which was made with so much passion by Zoya.
It has been in nomination in so many categories but few awards have come its way.”
The actor, whose youthful looks clearly belie his age, would be looking radiant as ever at IIFA as he discloses that he recently went to a European nation for a health programme.
“I went for a weeklong detox treatment to Austria and am completely rejuvenated.
My appeal to everyone is to invest in their health.
I even tell my children not to invest in property, bags but on wellness.”