The PPF rate is down and could dip further as interest rates are cut.
If your account is about to complete 15 years, here's what you should know.
Maturity is not in 15 years The maturity period of a Public Provident Fund (PPF) account is calculated from the end of the financial year in which the account was opened.
For instance, if you opened your PPF account on 15 April 2001, the account has completed 15 years but has not matured yet.
The 15-year period would begin from the end of 2001-02 (31 March 2002), so your account will mature on 31 March, 2017.
Tenure can be extended After the account matures, you can either withdraw the money or extend the account tenure.
If you wish to extend it, you have two options: continue with the account without further contributions or continue investing in the account.
If you choose to continue investing in it, you have to submit an application for extending the account tenure for a block of five years.
The application (Form H) has to be submitted within a year from the maturity date.
After five years, the account tenure can be further extended for another five years.
Continuing without investing If you don't submit an application for tenure extension, the PPF account tenure automatically gets extended but you cannot make further contributions to it.
The balance in the account will continue to earn interest, but you will no longer be required to invest the minimum Rs 500 in the account every year.
Once this option of continuing without contribution has been selected, the subscriber cannot alter it to make further contributions to the account.
Withdrawals during extension During the extension period, the withdrawal rules are more lenient.
If the account tenure has been extended without contribution, you can withdraw any amount, but just once in a year.
The balance will earn interest till it is withdrawn completely.
If the tenure has been extended with contribution, you can withdraw up to 60% of the balance that is in the account at the beginning of each block of five years.
Avoid withdrawals at the end of a calendar month, otherwise you will lose the interest for that month.
No change in taxation and other rules Whether you extend the account tenure with or without contributions, the tax treatment does not change.
The interest earned is tax-free and contributions can be claimed as a deduction under Section 80C.
The rules for contributing to the extended account also remain the same, with a cap of Rs 1.5 lakh in a financial year.
The only change is that NRIs, who may have opened PPF accounts before the change in their residency status, are not allowed to extend the account tenure after maturity.
Account can be foreclosed This year onwards, the government has allowed investors to close their PPF accounts early if the account in question has completed five years.
the account can be closed if they require money for their children's higher education or for medical treatment.
however, there is a penalty for foreclosure.
the investor gets 1% less interest on all the preceding years.
hence, this is not a good option unless there is a real emergency.
Account can be transferred You can also transfer your PPF account to a bank or Post Office branch, which is more convenient for you.
Some banks such as ICICI Bank allow online operation of PPF accounts, which makes it very easy, not only for working people but also for senior citizens.
An application for the transfer of the account has to be submitted on the prescribed form to the bank or Post Office branch where you hold an account at present.
The PPF rate is down and could dip further as interest rates are cut.
If your account is about to complete 15 years, here’s what you should know.