NEW DELHI: The probe into alleged bribery in the chopper deal moved beyond IAF ex-chief S P Tyagi, his cousins and brokers and will examine purported beneficiaries like serving and former officials in the defence ministry and IAF whose designations are mentioned in middleman Christian Michel's handwritten note.
The note, dictated by Michel and written by Guido Haschke , both middlemen, described how "bribe money" of 30 million euros was to be distributed among Indian bureaucrats, politicians and IAF officials.
The note, believed to have been written sometime in 2008 in Michel's London office, listed designations like `DCH', `PDSR', `DG Maintt', `FTT', `DS', `JS Air', AFA Air' and `DG Acq'.
The ED, sources said, has asked defence ministry to provide "property details" of at least 10 officials who handled the chopper contract over a period of time.
Some of the officials mentioned in the document presently hold important posts in government and constitutional bodies.The ED will probe the alleged recipients of payoffs in the light of notings of Choppergate middlemen who detailed "budgets" to swing the deal.
According to sources, apart from defence officials, the ED has also started a probe into references made under the heads "BUR" (bureaucrats) and "POL" (politicians) in the note, which is part of the Italian court judgment convicting former chief of defence firm Finmeccanica Guiseppe Orsi and former AgustaWestland CEO Bruno Spagnolini for graft.
Top ED officers told TOI "they have identified these people whose designations are mentioned in the note recovered from Haschke by Italian investigators".
An ED officer said, "This document is part of the Italian court judgment, which said Indian officials had been bribed.
Since the document has been made part of the judgment, it is an important piece of evidence now, hence it is important to examine the truth behind these coded references made by Michel and Haschke."
The officer added, "Since a chunk of the money was brought to India by Michel in cash, it is important to know whether there is truth in this note and if anyone was paid money as claimed by him."
The handwritten note titled `budget expenditure items' was included on page 9 of the Italian court order.
Under the head ` AF' (for air force), it used abbreviations of designations like `DCH', `PDSR', `DG Maintt' and `FTT'.
Under the head `BUR', it had entries like `DS', `JS Air', `AFA Air', `DG Acq', `CVC' and `Auditor Gen' and under the head `POL', it had `AP'.
The note had a separate entry `Fam', believed to be S P Tyagi's fami ly -his three cousins Sanjeev, Rajiv and Sandeep.
The note mentioned 6 million euros were for `AF' (Air Force), 8.4 million euros for `BUR' (bureaucrats), 3 million euros for `AP' and 15-16 million euros for `Fam'.
Haschke had claimed in court that "Michel pointed (to) me in this document what he said was his `budget' for this operation, that is, the expenses he would have incurred for this operation (chopper deal)".
Haschke explained AF meant `air force', PDSR meant `Principal Director Air Staff ', FTT meant Flight Trial Team, DG Maintt meant `DG Maintenance', CVC meant Central Vigilance Committee (incorrectly for Central Vigilance Commission), DG Acq meant Director General Acquisitions, JS Air meant `Joint Secretary Air', Fam meant "Tyagi family" and AP corresponded to `Ahmed Patel' (Congress chief Sonia Gandhi's key aide).
To follow money, ED seeks 7-nation tour
New Delhi: Going into overdrive to find the `money trail' of bribes paid to Indians in the VVIP chopper scam, the ED has sought the government's permission to send teams to seven countries, including Italy, from where the bribes were sent, and the UAE, where main middleman Christian Michel is said to be living now.
Sources told TOI that the ED also wants to travel to the UK, Tunisia, Mauritius, Switzerland and Singapore, from where a major chunk of the bribe of Rs 362 crore allegedly meant for Indian politicians, bureaucrats, IAF officials and former IAF chief S P Tyagi and his family was routed through a "web of companies".
The ED feels "overseas investigation" is required to "trace the bribe money" as most of the countries, except Italy, have not provided information on the letters rogatory (judicial requests) sent by it in 2014 in the case.