The 44 experts and entrepreneurs featuring in video chapters that take you from the mainframe era to the current mobile age include Tata Consultancy Services founder FC Kohli, Infosys founder NR Narayana Murthy, Wipro Group chairman Azim Premji , former UIADI chairman Nandan Nilekani , retired IIT Madras professor HN Mahabala, NASSCOM president R Chandrashekhar, Mindtree chairman Subroto Bagchi and former IT secretary N Vittal.
Itihaasa was developed over a period of eight months by Gopalakrishnan and former Infosys colleagues Krishnan Narayanan and Dr. N Dayasindhu.
It consists of 600 short videos amounting to 37 hours of research-based interview footage.
It traces the journey from the mid-1950s when India received its first electronic calculator to the era of startups and innovation.
350 rare photographs and news clippings are sourced from the archives of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), IIT Madras, Infosys and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), among others.
"The digital museum can be used for research, study of history, and capturing technological prosperity for the future generation," Gopalakrishnan said.
Explaining the need for such an app, NR Narayana Murthy said, "We need to know our past well to define our future better.
Kris has come up with an initiative of great value that uses multimedia to throw light on the little nuggets of technology."
He added that the Indian technology sector will remain relevant and future-ready "as long as there is innovation, as long as youngsters take charge and as long as there is enthusiasm."
Gopalakrishnan said that the app is a "work in progress" and will be updated periodically.
"More experts will be added to the existing list.
People will soon be allowed to create their own versions of IT history."
The platform will expand its scope to historical research of other topics in the future.
ET BureauApr 18, 2016, 09.17AM IST
(Itihaasa, a mobile app conceived…)
BENGALURU: In a first-of-its-kind initiative, forty-four technological stalwarts share a platform to trace India's digital revolution spanning 60 years.
Itihaasa, a mobile app conceived by Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan , was launched here on Sunday evening.
Available on Android and iOS platforms, the app chronicles the milestones of the $150 billion-worth IT sector, which is today one of the major forces behind India's global identity.
"I have had the opportunity to see the industry grow for over 35 years; see what kind of a significant impact it has created on the Indian economy , and how it has changed the perception of entrepreneurship in India," said Gopalakrishnan.