Expect the markets to clear 8000 and move beyond and even at this stage, a long stand be initiated.
By ET Now | 13 May, 2016, 08.03AM IST
In a chat with ET Now, Sacchitanand Uttekar, Motilal Oswal, says expects the markets to clear 8000 and move beyond and even at this stage, a long stand be initiated.
Edited excerpts ET Now: On the charts does the trend look like one that can take us to 8000 and beyond?
Sacchitanand Uttekar: Absolutely.
If you look at last week, we saw the level of around 7700 where Nifty had left the gap and during its uptrend, we saw that particular gap defended well.
We saw a good strong rebound and a very good start for the week.
Even if you look at the weekly formation, we have a rising three kind of a pattern which shows the uptrend may continue.
We expect the markets to clear the level of around 8000 and move beyond and even at this stage, long stand be initiated keeping a stop loss at around 7700-7750 with an expectation of a move above 8000.
ET Now: Could you help our viewers with strategies to approach trade on Friday?
Sacchitanand Uttekar: We have three buy calls lined up.
First one is LIC Housing Finance , wherein we have seen a breakout from a falling wedge pattern which is indicating a move right up to Rs 490.
This particular call can be participated with a stop loss at around Rs 432.
The second call is a buy call on Reliance Industries .
If you look at the overall movement we have seen a good support getting built up near its 200-day moving average.
We have seen a good strong rebound in today's session with volumes.
We expect this move to continue right up to Rs 1020 levels and the same can be still participated with a stop loss at around R s980.
The last call would be a buy call on Hero Moto.
We have a positive sector outlook on this counter.
We saw a bullish hammer getting formed near the medium term support level.
We have seen a good rebound in the stock in the last couple of sessions.
We expect the momentum to intensify from here on.
We expect a target of around Rs 3160 and a stop loss can be placed at around Rs 2900 for fresh longs.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email