By ET Bureau | 9 May, 2016, 03.29AM IST
The Uttarakhand assembly is getting ready to conduct a rare session on Tuesday in line with the Supreme Court‘s direction.
The session has only one agenda: A vote of confidence that Harish Rawat will seek.
By Sanjay Singh DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand assembly is getting ready to conduct a rare session on Tuesday in line with the Supreme Court's direction.
The session has only one agenda: A vote of confidence that Harish Rawat will seek.
While chief secretary Shatrughan Singh has directed all district magistrates and police chiefs to ensure security for the MLAs of their areas, officials of state assembly have almost given the final shape to the procedures for the session.
The state administration has worked out a detail plan to enable MLAs to reach the assembly without any obstruction.
As per the plan, Speaker GS Kunjwal would come to his chair in the house at 11 am and read out the court's direction on the agenda that the house would take up.
"The speaker is supposed to call the name of all the qualified 62 MLAs in the house," a source in the state assembly said.
Assembly secretary Jagdish Chandra would maintain a record of the MLAs who would be present in the house.
"Chandra will keep a sheet containing the names of all 62 MLAs.
He will tick in front of the names of MLAs who remain present/absent in the house," another source in the assembly said.
After completion of this formality, Rawat will read out one line seeking vote of confidence.
"Then MLAs would be asked to select their right side if they are in favour of motion," this source said.
The next stage would be for the MLAs who are against the motion.
"They would be asked to go to the left side."
During this time, the speaker would be in communication with the MLAs.
"The assembly secretary's main role is to ensure voting is done properly and record of the same is ma intained," the source said.
"While raising hands, MLAs would be video-graphed and counted one by one," the source said.
The assembly secretary will prepare his report and rush to Delhi for submitting the same.
Chandra refused to comment on the likely procedure.
Sources said the Speaker may send a separate envelope containing his vote.
"As per the plan, he may request the SC to consider his vote in case of a tie."
Sources in the state government said the media won't be allowed to enter the assembly on May 10.
Email