Business Standard
Press Trust of India |
BeijingMay 5, 2016 Last Updated at 09:13 IST
Copy tiny URL to save and share articles.
China plans to invest 77 billion yuan ($11.9 billion) this year in the construction of civil aviation infrastructure, particularly airports, the country's chief civil aviation regulator said.
China will begin with 11 key construction projects and 52 aviation-related upgrades, the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) said yesterday.
"The general aviation sector, especially aircraft research and manufacturing, has became a hot spot of both industrial upgrading and social concern," Feng Zhenglin, head of the CAAC, said.
The aviation sector will get preferential treatment to improve transportation, foster new growth engines, and boost employment and the service sector, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
China will begin with 11 key construction projects and 52 aviation-related upgrades China plans to invest 77 billion yuan ($11.9 billion) this year in the construction of civil aviation infrastructure, particularly airports, the country's chief civil aviation regulator said.China will begin with 11 key construction projects and 52 aviation-related upgrades, the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) said yesterday.
"The general aviation sector, especially aircraft research and manufacturing, has became a hot spot of both industrial upgrading and social concern," Feng Zhenglin, head of the CAAC, said.
The aviation sector will get preferential treatment to improve transportation, foster new growth engines, and boost employment and the service sector, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
Widgets Magazine Ad 3 Strong Fundamental Stocks for 2016: StockAxis Ad Open a demat account with Sharekhan & learn online trading.
Ad Buy Religare Health Insurance, No paperwork.
No tests till 45 yrs & Sum Diesel taxi ban could cost BPO sector $1 billion Ad 3 Strong Fundamental Stocks for 2016: StockAxis Ad Open a demat account with Sharekhan & learn online trading.
Ad Buy Religare Health Insurance, No paperwork.
No tests till 45 yrs & Sum Sun looks for partner in Japan
Widgets Magazine