NEW DELHI: In the absence of any solid domestic trigger and major earnings surprises, global developments are holding sway over Dalal Street , swaying the domestic equity market either way.
While the broader market waits for direction, individual counters are swinging to stock-specific cues and news triggers.
Here is a list of 15 stocks that are likely to see action in Friday's session in response to various news triggers.
Hero MotoCorp: The motorcycle maker on Thursday reported markedly improved financial results for the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2015-16 (FY16).
It's full-year performance, however, was sluggish.
The standalone Q4 net sales of the two-wheeler major came in at Rs 7,385 crore, which worked out to be 10.3 per cent higher than the net sales in the year-ago quarter.
This growth rate was the highest in the last six quarters and in FY16, Q4 was the second consecutive quarter of positive growth after the growth in first two quarters came in the negative.
State Bank of India: The country's largest public sector bank has launched a mobile payment solution that will enable customers to make digital payments at offline stores by scanning a QR (quick response) code on their smart phones.
The service has been launched in Bengaluru with a sizable number of merchants and will soon expand into other cities.
Dubbed mVisa, the solution is a card-less way for customers to pay for goods at offline stores, and will be available to all SBI credit card, debit card and net banking users.
Alstom T&D: Shares of the company took a hit over the past two days after weak results.
Its March 2016 quarter numbers, released on Tuesday, missed the Street's expectations by a huge margin.
As the March quarter is usually positive for capital goods companies, analysts polled on Bloomberg expected Alstom to post revenues of Rs 1,441 crore.
With revenues at Rs 971 crore in the quarter (down 29 per cent year-on-year), the Street punished the stock.
Net profit stood at Rs 30 crore, down 48 per cent year-on-year.
ITC: The FMCG major has forayed into the super-premium chocolate segment with a luxury offering branded Fabelle, which will be sold through boutique stores in its luxury hotels.
Boxes of the assorted chocolates will be sold at Rs 1,000 each on average.
The chocolates will be manufactured in Bengaluru, two senior industry executives said.
Meanwhile, the company has shut down its cigarette plants from May 4 to comply with a new stipulated pictorial warnings rule issued by the Centre.
Mahindra & Mahindra: The SUV maker has turned the tables on Tata Motors, the nation's largest commercial vehicle maker, in the market for mini trucks, or small commercial vehicles.
From being a strong challenger a few years ago, Mahindra has not only overtaken Tata Motors as the largest small commercial vehicle maker, but also extended the lead to 15% in the load or cargo carrying truck segment — Mahindra has a 52% market share here, compared with 37% for Tata Motors.
If the passenger carrying versions of pickups are included, Mahindra's share is 49% compared with Tata Motors' 41%.
Sun Pharma: The stock received a thumbs up from investors on Thursday, after the company said its psoriasis molecule met two key targets in advanced clinical studies, taking the drug closer to filing for approval from the US health regulators.
Analyst reactions were however mixed, with some expressing doubts over the pricing power of the product with competition increasing in psoriasis treatment, and others seeing definite upside when the company launches the drug.
Tata Steel , JSW Steel, Hindalco , Nalco: The tide seems to be turning for these metal stocks.
Legendary investor Mark Mobius is advising investors to buy commodity stocks, citing sector rebound has just began, while Citigroup, a global financial services firm, said a weaker dollar and a stabilising Chinese economy indicate that commodities have hit their bottoms.
Shares of these metal companies have already surged about 65% from their October lows, and analysts believe that there's still steam left in the rally.
Bharti Airtel: The telecom major expects the entry of Reliance Jio Infocomm to shake up the market, but says it is battle-ready to face off with the competitor that is predicted to come up with cheap tariffs.
Gopal Vittal, Bharti Airtel CEO for India and South Asia, said he expects the Reliance Industries unit to make a "forceful launch", but show "semblance of rationality" in pricing its services.
ICICI Bank , HDFC Bank: Stocks of top banks are likely to see a lot of action after the Lok Sabha on Thursday approved a Bill to overhaul century-old laws that regulate insolvency.
The proposed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code aims to slash the time it takes to wind up a company or recover dues from a defaulter.
The Bill will become a law once the Rajya Sabha clears it.
Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday proposed granting on-tap universal banking licences to individuals, groups or entities and companies, opening up the sector to more competition.
Amara Raja: The company's twin strategies of expanding dealer network and offering a range of products with longer warranties have paid off for Amara Raja Batteries , India's second largest battery maker, helping it to grow 5-10 per cent more than the industry average in the past five years.
Analysts say the company's market share will rise another 3 per cent by 2018.
The stock has already multiplied nearly nine times in the past five years, trading at 50 per cent premium to its peers.
Yes Bank: The private sector lender on Thursday said it had been granted an in-principle approval by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for acting as Custodian of Securities.
The bank has 12 months to establish the business.
Custodian of securities is a licence granted by the market regulator that allows companies to offer custodial services to financial market participants including foreign institutional investors and foreign portfolio investors.
A custodian is a bank or a financial institution that holds financial securities such as stocks, bonds, gold .