WHEN Italian financial institutions created Atlante, a €4.3 billion ($4.9 billion) bank-rescue fund, at the government’s behest last month, they did so partly to guarantee a share sale by Banco Popolare di Vicenza (BPVi), the country’s tenth-biggest bank.
They also hoped that Atlante’s mere existence would encourage other investors to subscribe.
Fat chance.
On May 2nd the stock exchange said too few had signed up for its stockmarket listing to proceed.
Atlante (Italian for Atlas, a mythical giant who supported the sky) will underwrite the whole €1.5 billion issue, leaving it the owner of almost all of the troubled lender.
Atlante’s intervention has staved off an immediate crisis: after November’s botched public bail-out of four small banks, in which retail investors lost money, failure to raise new capital for BPVi was unthinkable.
UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, will be especially relieved, having sidestepped an ill-advised commitment to underwrite the issue in full.
BPVi’s flop bodes ill for Banca Veneto, another smallish bank which plans a €1 billion capital increase in June.
But Veneto’s predicament is less dire; and Intesa Sanpaolo, one of Italy’s stronger banks, has syndicated its underwriting of the rights issue, which UniCredit failed to do for BPVi’s.
Veneto’s chairman says he does not expect to need Atlante’s help.
The fund’s biggest test of strength will be denting Italy’s gigantic pile of bad debts.
Gross non-performing loans amount to €360 billion, of which €196 billion are especially troublesome.
Mediobanca, an investment bank, reckons that Atlante (bulked up by leverage, and working alongside a new government guarantee scheme) could absorb €21 billion.
Equita, another, suggests the fund could buy up to €33 billion.
Atlante’s stamina will depend partly on how Veneto’s capital increase goes: if the fund chips in a lot, it will have less left over for bad loans.
A bankruptcy reform to speed up credit recovery, passed on April 29th, may help by making duff loans a little more valuable.
Questions also remain over how the fund will be governed, how it will turn round the banks it supports and how it will sort out the loans it acquires.
The European Banking Authority is due to carry out further “stress tests” on the banks it supervises this summer, to assess their resilience to economic shocks.
Italians will hope it puts no more weight on Atlante’s shoulders.