A lot of weightage is given to market capitalisation while calculating valuations of a company stock and even in comparison with its peers.
ET tells you what it means & why it is so important.
What is market capitalisation?
Market capitalisation or market cap is the total value of a firm fixed by the market.
Market cap is calculated by multiplying the total number of shares outstanding and the current market price.
Why is it important?
It is a basic parameter and is widely used in valuation calculations like market cap to sales.
Instead of the share price, market cap is used commonly while com paring similar companies.
This is because share prices are affected more by corporate actions like bonus, stock split, etc.
For example, the market cap of 2 companies may be same, but their share price may be different only because of different face values (i.e. one at Rs 10 and the other at Rs 1).
How are companies classified based on market capitalisation?
Usually, companies are classified into 3 on the basis of market caps -large-caps, mid-caps and small-caps.
There is no hard and fast rule about these classifications.
Globally, companies with a market cap of above $ 2 billion are classified as large-caps.
In Indian context, it can be treated as anything above Rs 10,000 crore.
Reliance, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharmaceutical are examples of large caps .
Similarly, companies with market cap between Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 10,000 crore can be treated as mid cap and those below Rs 1,000 crore as small cap.
What are the advantages of picking up a large-cap stock?
Large-caps are considered to be less risky as they are well-established and information about them is readily available.
This availability of information is a big advantage for large cap investors.
Usually, large cap stocks are more liquid, so it is easy to exit.
However, investors should understand that large cap stocks are not completely immune to risks.
For example, large-cap stocks have taken a bigger beating in recent stock market correction.
What should investors bear in mind while investing in medium and small-cap stocks?
Current large cap companies were in the small and mid-cap segments earlier and got upgraded to large cap segment after doing well.
This means the wealth creation potential is much more in the small and mid-cap segments.
However, investors should bear in mind that with higher returns, come higher risks.
A lot of weightage is given to market cap while calculating valuations of a company stock.
ET tells you why it is so important.