NEW DELHI: Amendments made to the India-Mauritius tax treaty to tax capital gains on shares after April 1, 2017, is likely to bring in a more stable and transparent regime, but will flush out foreign investors (FIIs) who invest in Indian equities with a short-term view.
Let's first understand why we use the term 'hot money' and what are its implications?
In simple terms, hot money is a term used when funds are flown from one country to another.
But, why 'hot'?
Usually funds are transferred from a low interest-rate yielding market into a higher interest rate market to make short-term capital gain on interest rate differential.
The investment horizon is usually less than a year.
Earlier FIIs were getting a tax benefit in a legitimate way by investing in the Indian market through the Mauritius route.
There was a window of opportunity available for FIIs all these years and most FIIs benefitted from it.
The protocol will address the issue of tax abuse and treaty shopping and help curb revenue loss to the government and prevent 'double non-taxation', said experts.
"The real impact of the tax amendments is on hot money, because the impact is only on those FIIs who are making short-term capital gains.
Anyone who is making long-term capital gains did not rely on the tax treaty.
Only those who want short-term capital gains are necessarily investing hot money," Abhishek Goenka, Partner, PWC, said in a webinar organised by ETMarkets.com.
To that extent, hedge funds that believe only in short-term transaction will now get impacted adversely, he said.
With the tax arbitrage going away, it will act as an acid test for our market, said Goenka.
Under the Indian income-tax laws, shares of listed companies held by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) are deemed to be capital assets irrespective of the holding period or the frequency of trading carried out by the FPI concerned.
"Income from the sale of shares results in capital gains and at present, FPIs enjoy the benefits of the capital gains provisions under the India-Mauritius DTAA," Nishith Desai Associates said in a note.
"As per the protocol, such investments shall now be subject to tax in India after April 1, 2017.
The protocol is likely to have an adverse effect on various market participants and investors operating out of Mauritius such as P-Note issuers, FPIs, private equity funds and holding companies," the note added.
There is a zero per cent rate applicable on gains arising out of shares that are listed and sold on a recognised stock exchange if the holding period is more than 12 months.
Capital gains will arise out of investments subject to a tax rate of 15 per cent if a security is held for less than 12 months i.e. which is short-term capital gain.
"The short-term money has to think twice before investing in India, because they will have to factor in this tax also," said Bhat.
Therefore, the short-term money that came for quick gains may not be there anymore.
"There is a view that this 'hot money' might be coming to somewhat lesser extent post these measures from April 1, 2017," Bhat said.
Another issue that worries investors is that fact that Mauritius is the biggest source of foreign direct investment and portfolio investment into India.
If investment from Mauritius slows down, it will also impact flows from Singapore, which contributes 16 per cent of FDI in India compared with 31 per cent by Mauritius.
The impact on the Singapore treaty is that the capital gain exemption under the India-Singapore treaty has a condition that exemption will be available only as long as there is a capital gain exemption under the India-Mauritius treaty.
"Technically after April 1, 2017, the general exemption under the India-Mauritius treaty goes and hence that one condition in the India-Singapore treaty will require that such exemption is no longer be fulfilled," Goenka said.
Why isn't market reacting?
The mood of D-Street analysts on the whole taxation treaty is largely positive, as it could bring in more stable capital flows into the country which will help reduce volatility in the system.
Now that we know that the short-term gains are going to be taxed why isn't market reacting?
If we look at it, there is no panic as the government has already given enough time to investors to make adjustments in their portfolio.
Also, there is no point selling now when you have the option to sell at a later date at a higher level of the market.
"FIIs still have time till April 2017.
I mean until April, it is absolutely status quo.
Whatever they want to do, they can do.
So why should anybody sell today or tomorrow?
If somebody can sell at say 200 points higher or 500 points higher in next three months, six months, why should they sell it today?," Raamdeo Agrawal, MD & Co-Founder, MOFSL, said in an interview with ET Now .
"I do not think there is any reason to go short or anything like somebody has to wake up in Boston or somewhere and trigger the trade.
I do not think there is going to be anything like that," he added.