OF THE 3.1m Americans who bought a new car in the last three months of 2015, 86% of them took out a loan to do so, according to Experian Automotive, a research firm.
More car loans are issued in America than mortgages.
The total amount outstanding on them is almost $1.1 trillion—well in excess of credit-card debt, and almost as much as the stock of student loans.
But there is one part of the car market where credit is scarcer: only 55% of the 5.6m who bought secondhand cars in the fourth quarter of 2015 received a loan.
Whereas sales of new cars get most of the attention, secondhand cars generate twice as many transactions, worth 50% more in total.
Stereotypical small car-dealers, with their oily manner and shouty television advertisements, are being displaced by big chains, such as CarMax, with transparent prices and standards.
These outfits are able to offer credit, since they can provide accurate valuations, and thus be sure that the car in question is adequate collateral for a loan.
Indeed, CarMax makes 40% of its profits from lending.
Every year, however, more than 10m cars are sold in America by one individual to another.
Such transactions are much harder to finance.
Lenders have little way of knowing whether the money is actually being used to buy a car, let alone whether the car is worth the amount to be borrowed.
Credit unions will occasionally finance such transactions, but only for buyers with very high credit ratings and only after cumbersome procedures to guard against fraud.
Both buyer and seller are required to show up at the credit union to sign the relevant documents in person.
There are few market failures in America that do not now have fintech firms clamouring to correct them, and used-car loans are no exception.
An online marketplace called Shift opened for business in San Francisco a little over a year ago and now operates in six cities.
Rather than buy and resell cars, Shift greases the wheels of “peer-to-peer” transactions for a fee without ever owning any cars.
(A rival startup called Beepi offers a seemingly similar service, but does take ownership of the cars, making it more like a web-only version of CarMax.)
Shift picks up cars from sellers, checks what shape they’re in, photographs them and advertises them on its website at a price it sets.
When a buyer is found, it handles all the paperwork.
It even delivers the car to potential buyers for a test drive.
The extensive inspection allows Shift to assess the car as collateral for a loan, and by handling the paperwork itself it reduces the risk of fraud.
That allows Shift to offer loans at rates of 4-9%—more or less what a conventional dealer would offer, but without the same incentive to inflate the sales price.
The innovation may help America’s mountain of car loans grow even taller.