The poll panel, along with income-tax officials, has seized Rs 98 crore in cash during statewide joint raids in a bid to prevent ‘cash for votes’.
CHENNAI: With four days left for polling in Tamil Nadu, the Election Commission's motto #TN100percent (to ensure 100% voting in the state) may or may not be achieved, but it has almost reached 'TN Rs 100 crore'.
The poll panel, along with income-tax officials, has seized Rs 98 crore in cash during statewide joint raids in a bid to prevent 'cash for votes'.
The raids are continuing.
According to Election Commission officials, this is the highest pre-election cash seizure anywhere in the country.
About Rs 35 crore cash was seized ahead of the 2011 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu while Rs 25 crore was recovered in the state ahead of 2014 parliamentary elections.
Even as most major parties have promised a corruption-free government, representatives across the political spectrum have been arrested or slapped with cases for being in possession with unaccounted cash.
The commission believes the cash was meant for distribution among people.
Also, in a state where all political hopefuls have promised prohibition, alcohol is flowing freely.
The commission is probing a 37% rise in beer consumption over the previous month.
"We have asked the prohibition department to look into cases of bulk sales which could indicate foul play," said Chief Electoral Officer Rajesh Lakhoni.
However, with none of the state-owned Tasmac alcohol outlets maintaining a proper billing system, officials say it will be difficult to track illegal distribution during political rallies or election-related events.
The poll panel says its call centres are inundated with information on illegal cash and alcohol distribution, and is taking action.
"We have deployed over 6,100 flying squads to cover at least 6,000 villages to prevent cash distribution," Lakhoni said.
Smaller parties like Vaiko-led MDMK and Vijaykanth-led DMDK have been urging people not to accept cash, but it seems to have had little effect.
"There was a power cut in our area last night and we heard that someone was distributing cash under the cover of darkness.
We waited for some time, but were disappointed that no one came," said a resident of MGR Nagar in the heart of Chennai .
The commission officials admitted to tip-off that power supply was being tripped by representatives of political parties to distribute cash.
"We immediately rushed our officers to these areas but found nothing.
We have been asked to send a report and have in turn asked the energy resources department and Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation to give us a detailed report on why there was no power supply in some areas on Tuesday night," Lakhoni said.
Email