NEW DELHI: The benchmark equity indices resumed their downward journey on Friday, after snapping a three-day losing streak in the previous session, as weak cues from Asian markets weighed on sentiments.At 11.46 AM, the S&P BSE index was down 120 points, or 0.5 per cent, at 25,139.14.
NSE barometer Nifty50 fell about 30 points and was quoting around its psychological level of 7,700.
Shares of Hero MotoCorp fell 1 per cent to Rs 2,863.45.
The standalone Q4 net sales of the two-wheeler major came in at Rs 7,385 crore, 10.3 per cent higher than that for the year-ago quarter.
ITC fell 2.6 per cent to Rs 309.35.
The stock was down even as there were reports that the FMCG major has forayed into the super-premium chocolate segment with a luxury offering branded Fabelle, which will be sold through boutique stores in its luxury hotels.
Gail advanced 2 per cent in trade.
Select banking stocks were in the limelight after the Lok Sabha on Thursday approved a bill to overhaul century-old laws that regulate insolvency.
The proposed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code aims to reduce the time it takes to wind up a company or recover dues from a defaulter.
The bill will become law once the Rajya Sabha clears it.
Among overseas cues, data released on Thursday showed the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, posting the biggest jump in more than a year.
Investors anxiously awaited US jobs data for April due on Friday for signs of how the labour market could influence the pace of rate hikes, a Reuters report said.
"We reiterate that traders holding short positions should keep booking profits and refrain from creating fresh (short) positions at current level.
It would be a prudent strategy to wait for an appropriate signal to form a directional view on the index," Angel Broking said in a note.
In the currency market, the rupee declined 1 paisa to 66.56 against the US dollar in early trade on Friday ahead of the US April jobs data that can drop hints of how the labour market could influence the pace of Fed rate hikes in the coming months.
Six triggers that influencedthe initial trading in the market:
Cues from Singapore negative: At 07:45 am, Nifty50 futures on the Singapore Stock Exchange were trading 33 points lower at 7,730, indicating a negative opening on Dalal Street.
Overall, the market is still in a state of limbo, with no real momentum on either side, said Nikhil Kamath, Co-Founder & Director, Zerodha.
Mustafa Nadeem, CEO of Epic Research, said there was a tug of war between the bulls and the bears and the undertone suggests that the bulls are having a better grip for the near term.
Selling pressure may continue: Analysts believe the Nifty50 may test further lows in the coming days.
"The immediate support for the Nifty50 is at 7,680 while the resistance is now likely to increase once it moves closer to the 7,780-7,850 range.
The overall short-term trend is also downbeat as long as the Nifty50 trades below the top of 7,850.
The overall oscillator setup, though, remains in sell mode with the RSI and MACD continuing to trend down while the stochastic is the only indicator in the neutral mode, said Siddhartha Khemka, Head of Research, Centrum Wealth.
Q4 earnings to trigger stock-specific action: A total of 150 companies were scheduled to announce their quarterly numbers this week.
While earnings of HDFC, Adani Ports and TVS Motor and Jindal Steel have failed to enthuse investors, a couple of companies such as Titan Company, Siemens India, Wockhardt , Reliance Capital , Pfizer , Geometric , Inox Wind, KEC International and Equitas will report their quarterly numbers during the day, which could generate stock-specific action on these counters.
Asian markets stay weak: Most Asian markets were trading weak this morning.
Japan's benchmark Nikkei was trading 0.79per cent lower at 16,019.
Other Asian indices, including South Korea's Kospi (flat), China's Shanghai Composite (down 0.19 per cent) and Taiwan's TWSE (down 0.46 per cent) were trading lower.
"Markets are fluctuating in a band after the sharp runup over the past 2-3 months.
We believe the short-term trend will be dictated by the remaining quarterly results and further indications on monsoon, apart from global cues like Friday's US jobs numbers," said Dipen Shah, Senior Vice-President & Head of Private Client Group Research, Kotak Securities:
US market ended flat on Thursday: The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 9.45 points, or 0.05 per cent, to close at 17,660.71 on Thursday.
The S&P500 inched 0.49 points, or 0.02 per cent, lower at 2,050.63.
Data on Thursday showed the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose more than expected last week, posting the biggest jump in more than a year, Reuters said in a note.
Investors anxiously awaiting Friday's US jobs data for April will comb through the report for any signs of how the labour market could influence the pace of rate hikes, the report added.
Crude oil gets a lift: A devastating wildfire that has emptied a Canadian town of some 88,000 people in the heart of the country's oil sands region sent petroleum prices upward on Thursday.
West Texas Intermediate crude oil , the US benchmark, was up 2.8 per cent to $45.02 a barrel after rising as high as $46.07.
Brent crude, the world benchmark, rose 2.6 per cent to $45.77.