 
FEW companies can claim to have started an industry.
Lending Club was not the first peer-to-peer, or marketplace, lender to match investors and borrowers online.
But it is the industry’s flagship firm—the first to go public and the largest in terms of the loans it has facilitated.
In the process, Lending Club and its founder, Renaud Laplanche, also helped to foster broader enthusiasm for fintech.
This week Mr Laplanche abruptly resigned, for reasons that remain unclear.
According to the company, Mr Laplanche mishandled an investigation into problems in a $22m loan portfolio that had been purchased by Jefferies, an investment bank; and was insufficiently forthcoming about his own stake in Cirrix Capital, which purchased Lending Club loans and received a separate investment directly from the company.
Mr Laplanche’s sudden departure comes at a particularly difficult time.
The firm’s shares have been heading south ever since its 2014 listing (see chart).
The peer-to-peer business model is based on fees; that means they have to keep bringing in new investors and borrowers.
But institutional money, on which peer-to-peer firms have been growing more reliant, are suspicious about credit quality.
A review of the fourth-quarter book of both Lending Club and Prosper, a rival lender, by PeerIQ, an analytics firm, shows a slight uptick in defaults.
Both firms have raised interest rates in response, but over time that risks putting off borrowers.
Investors’ concerns will only be aggravated by the idea that Lending Club’s operating model is not as squeaky-clean as had been thought.
From its inception, it had described itself as a neutral marketplace that avoided taking credit risks.
The involvement of the company and Mr Laplanche in a fund holding these loans suggests it was not quite as neutral as it claimed.
Worse still, the possibility that data tied to loans could be erroneous, and perhaps intentionally so, adds to concerns.
Both Jefferies and Goldman Sachs have reportedly put off purchases of Lending Club loans that would have been packaged up for resale.
Rivals are not rejoicing in Lending Club’s travails.
One groused that it was a gift for the banking lobby and regulators vexed by the rise of an efficient market for credit that they did not control.
On the day after Mr Laplanche’s exit, the Treasury issued a white paper calling for tougher oversight of peer-to-peer lenders.
Institutional investors will demand more in the way of disclosure, asset reviews and independent evaluations.
That will encourage Lending Club and others to turn back towards less flighty retail investors.
Mr Laplanche built an industry; his departure will continue to shape it.