Shikha Sharma, MD at private sector Axis Bank, and Arun Tiwari, chairman at state-run Union Bank of India, have been shortlisted as members of the committee.
NEW DELHI: The government has constituted a high-profile committee to look into the issue of bad loans after the Supreme Court expressed concerns over "substantial" non-performing assets ( NPA ) in the banking sector.
Shikha Sharma, MD at private sector Axis Bank , and Arun Tiwari, chairman at state-run Union Bank of India, have been shortlisted as members of the committee that will also have representations from the finance ministry and Reserve Bank of India (RBI), a finance ministry official said.
"The committee will look at existing issues and suggest measures to resolve bad loans.
These suggestions cannot be restricted to state-run lenders and therefore a wider participation will ensure sector-specific resolution mechanisms," the official said.
Last month, the Supreme Court had directed the government to appoint a committee to look into the issues of bad loans.
"You propose a committee to look into it.
We will accept the proposal," Chief Justice of India T S Thakur had said.
"Something is missing (in the present system).
That is why it is not working.
We are looking at suggestions to reform the system and prevent huge write-offs," he had noted.
Gross NPAs of public sector banks increased to 7.30% as of December 2015 from 5.43% in March 2015.
The Supreme Court had earlier observed that the banking regulator is supposed to keep a vigil if a bank is not doing things prudently and is recklessly extending loans without adequate collateral and hope of recovery.
"You are meant to be a watchdog.
What are you doing?
The information (given to us) involves a substantial amount.
We need to be satisfied that all that is required to be done is being done," Thakur had said.
The CJI had further observed that people are taking crores of rupees from banks, running businesses and declaring them sick, but properties of small borrowers are attached.
According to the government data, top 50 defaulters of public sector banks had exposure in excess of Rs 1.21 lakh crore as of December 2015.
"Once the bankruptcy law comes into force we are hopeful that the recovery process will be fast tracked and banks will be able to take swift action," said the finance ministry official quoted earlier.
One key features of the Bankruptcy Code is hastening debt recoveries and restructurings by setting a deadline of 180 days to decide the fate of a company that defaults.
If 75% of the creditors agree on a revival plan, that term can be extended by 90 days.
Otherwise, a firm would be automatically liquidated.
Email