High commissions on financial products can be a drain for any investor.
Little wonder Sebi has mandated that mutual funds disclose commissions paid to distributors.
From 1 October, the total commission paid will reflect on the common account statements sent to investors.
As these values will be in absolute numbers, there will be no scope for ambiguity.
Now, insurance is another financial product that is plagued by high commission structure.
So how do you find out what the commission being paid on insurance products is?
"For Ulips, the commission is revealed in the last column of the benefit illustration," says Manoj Jain, CEO, Shriram Life Insurance.
This feature has been around since July 1, 2010.
A signed copy of the benefit illustration along with the proposal form is mandatory for issuing a policy.
Next time, check the commission column before signing the proposal form.
How does one compare the commission structure of mutual funds and Ulips?
While commission is high in the initial years for Ulips, it grows over the years in mutual funds.
This is because insurance companies pay commission only on new premiums, while mutual funds pay commission for the accumulated corpus—the trail commission (see chart).
Let us assume an annual investment of Rs 1 lakh for 20 years, where the insurance commission is taken at 8% in the first year and 2% in subsequent years and the mutual fund commission is assumed as 0.5% upfront and 0.75% as trail commission.
The total commission paid during the holding period is high for mutual funds at Rs 63,289, compared to Rs 46,000 for Ulips.
However, since the values are in different time periods, it is not a fair comparison.
So we bring them to today's values assuming an inflation of 5%.
After this normalisation, the commission differential narrows down to Rs 35,443 for mutual funds and Rs 32,171 for Ulips.
Since the new mutual fund commission disclosure norm has brought in a 'level playing field', insurance companies are happy.
"Sebi's new commission disclosure norms are welcome because it will showcase total commission on mutual funds and bust the myth that only insurance pays high commissions," says R.M.
Vishakha, MD & CEO, IndiaFirst Life Insurance.
Now, commission disclosure norm is applicable only for Ulips and not for other insurance products.
Only a plain quote is given for term plans with no detailed benefit illustrations.
The commission structure is not visible.
Customers, however, can circumvent this problem by comparing the cost structure of the online term plan version from the same insurance company.
Though the exact commission will not be available, you can get the cost differential.
What about other products?
"Detailed benefit illustrations should be given for products that will be returning some money at the end," says Nilesh Sathe, Member (Life Insurance), Irdai.
The regulatory authority has brought down the illustrative rates from 6% and 10% earlier to 4% and 8% now.
However, the crucial part of the commission is missing from these illustrations.
Customers need to be careful.
"These calculations (based on 4% and 8% growth rates in benefit illustrations) are due to regulatory requirement and investors should not assume that this is the return they are going to get," says Manju Dhake, Insurance Head at 5nance.com.
The rule becomes different again for products those have some 'guarantee' attached.
"If the returns are guaranteed, then commission and expenses are not relevant.
The comparison then should be the guaranteed rate offered and rates available in other competitive products," says Vishakha.
However, this product's benefit illustration with 4% and 8% returns will be confusing for investors.
This is because the 'guaranteed return' may be much smaller than that.
We have even come across a benefit illustration that offers negative guaranteed return (maturity benefit of Rs 5,93,081 only against the total investment of Rs 7,20,000 over 20 years.
However, the same benefit illustration contains computation based on 'non-guaranteed bonuses' of 4% and 8%.
Agents may try to push this 'nonguaranteed bonuses' by showcasing it as possible high returns in future.
However, investors should treat guaranteed products like bank deposits and concentrate on the 'guaranteed returns'.
Finally, even if the commission details are not available in the benefit illustration, you have the right to demand it from your agent.
"The agent has to disclose the commission if the customer demands it.
However, as per rules, it is not compulsory for the agent to disclose it voluntarily," says Sathe.