The countries that are party to the agreement, which is aimed at simplifying trade rules, have to make public a list of laboratories where tests can be carried out.
NEW DELHI: The next time India finds itself at the receiving end as it did when the European Union banned the import of Alphonso mangoes from the country, it will have the option of getting the consignment retested and shipping it to the same destination in case the results are in its favour.
This will become possible with the implementation of the World Trade Organisation's Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA), which allows the participating countries to opt for a second test in case the first test result of a sample taken upon the arrival of goods throws up an adverse finding.
The countries that are party to the agreement, which is aimed at simplifying trade rules, have to make public a list of laboratories where tests can be carried out.
Over the years, India has faced rejections, complaints and restrictions from many countries in the world, including the developing ones, for a large number of its agricultural products such as mangoes, rice, poultry products, okra and groundnut for different reasons.
The EU alone raised 199 notifications against food items of Indian origin in 2014.
These included detainment of consignments as well.
"At present, we have to forego a detained consignment.
But once TFA is in place, even if we fail the first test, we will have the option of sending the consignment to some other country," an official said.
The trade facilitation pact, which is part of the WTO's Bali ministerial package of 2013, contains provisions for expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods, including goods in transit.
It also sets out measures for effective cooperation between customs and other appropriate authorities on trade facilitation and customs compliance issues.
The agreement will come into force after it is formally accepted by two-thirds of the WTO membership.
Till now, 76 countries of the 162 WTO members have ratified this pact.
"A member may, upon request, grant an opportunity for a second test in case the first test result of a sample taken upon arrival of goods declared for importation shows an adverse finding," the agreement says.
The provision is aimed at curbing the pressure tactics and informal non-tariff measures used by developed countries to crush domestic businesses of developing countries.
"Many developed countries have the habit of stopping goods in transit even if they are not meant for their country's consumption.
However, now there is a binding commitment that they can't stop such shipments," the official said.
According to the industry, India stands to gain from getting consignments retested and sending them to other markets, and a clear passage for goods in transit.
"It is only fair that exporters insist on an unbiased mechanism if they are meeting all the quality standards," said Ajay Sahai, director general of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations.
"If goods are not meant for a particular country, then that country can't stop their passage and can't impose its standards," he said.
Email