Every week, an expert selected by ET answers queries from our readers on income tax and other levies.
Answers by Dilip Lakhani, Senior Chartered Accountant.
I intend to give a cash gift of over Rs 50,000 to my son and daughter.
Will it be taxed under IT Act at their hands?
What is the exemption limit for cash gift from parents?
— H MISTRY
The gift given to son or daughter by you will not be taxable in their hands.
There is no limit to the amount which you can gift to your son or daughter.
My daughter moved to the US after marriage.
Her husband is an NRI .
She is on a dependent visa.
I purchased a flat (with my savings much before her marriage) in the joint name of me, my wife and my daughter.
My questions are — 1.
After my demise, will the flat automatically get transferred in their names?
2.
Will the rent on the property be divided equally between my wife and daughter?
3.
Will the rent received by my daughter be taxable (rent less maintenance) in India?
4.
I have a few fixed deposits (FDs) with my daughter as a nominee.
Will the interest on FDs be counted for tax calculation in India?
4.
I purchased a few shares which are in my demat account.
I have nominated her name (daughter).
Will the dividend and capital gains tax?
5.
As per new changes in the US law, the dependent spouse is allowed to work.
If she starts working and her income is taxable in the US, will her income from rent / capital gains etc.
(in India) be counted as taxable at both countries in the US and India?
From the facts it emerges that you have purchased a flat with your own funds and the name of your wife and daughter are included as joint owner only for the purpose of convenience.
They do not have any right, title or interest in the flat so long as you are alive.
After your demise, how the flat will be transferred in the name of your wife / daughter will depend upon where the said flat is located, what are the regulations applicable and what you would write in your will.
If the flat is to be divided equally between your wife and daughter after your demise, then as legal heirs they will be entitled to enjoy the rent in equal proportion.
The rental income in India belonging to your daughter will be chargeable to tax in India.
In respect of FDs and shares, where your daughter is a nominee, she will have legal rights only after your demise.
On your demise when she becomes the legal owner of FDs and shares, there will be no tax liability.
Dividend from shares will be exempt in her hand in India.
Interest on FDs will be taxable in India.
As per US Tax laws, she will be liable to pay income tax in the US on her income in India being the rent, interest, capital gains, dividend etc.
Even if the tax is paid in India on such income, she will be liable to pay tax in USA on such income.
The tax paid in India can be taken as set off against the tax liability in USA.