NEW DELHI: Most analysts on Dalal Street think a bounceback in earnings growth can act as the next big trigger for the equity indices to go higher amid the global imponderables.It is too early to comment on March quarter results.
But after four quarters of flat earnings growth reported by India Inc , FY17 could well be the year when investors may witness double-digit growth.
So why is earnings growth so important and why are analysts talking about it in every conversation?
First, earnings growth is considered a direct proxy to signs of recovery in the domestic economy.
India is growing at a rate of 7 per cent plus, but it is yet to get reflected in corporate balance sheets.
If earnings start to move up, it will also lift stock prices.
Growth in earnings will lift earnings per share (EPS) and market price is a function of EPS and PE multiple.
The EPS is an indicator of a company's profitability.
Data from 381 companies which have reported their earnings for the quarter ended March 31 so far showed net profits have risen 12.3 per cent year on year to Rs 35,719 crore, but fell 31.93 per cent on a sequential basis, according to ETIG Database.
Net sales rose 5.09 per cent on a year-on-year basis to Rs 4,75,347 crore and 6.8 per cent sequentially while operating profit rose nearly 12 per cent on a year-on-year basis to Rs 1,15,023 crore.
"We will face heightened volatility over the next few months and the market may retract 10 per cent or so.
But I think our support will be the fact GDP growth is going to be 7 per cent or more at a time when many economies are struggling to grow," S Nagnath, President & CIO, DSP BlackRock, said in an interview with ET Now.
India Inc's earnings are actually going to stabilise from here on instead of declining and when they move up, they will lend strong support to the markets, experts said.
"Instead of 16 times even if you end up buying the index at say 14 times, with the potential for PE expansion in the next 24 months supported by earnings growth, it would make this market fairly attractive," said Nagnath.
Here are diverse views from D-Street on India Inc's earnings growth and its impact on markets:
Vaibhav Sanghvi, MD, Ambit Investment Advisors Analysts say from a medium-term to long-term perspective, they would be following earnings growth in the domestic economy , which would chart the trajectory for markets.
"If we assume that global markets are going to be steady or in other words there is no big catastrophe for a big ugly event happening in the global markets, in that context I think we would be growing as our earnings grow," Sanghvi said.
"Estimate on the Street is about that the earnings will grow between the range of 15% to 20% in FY17.
We think that it would be around 10% to 15% and if it is more than, we would be pleasantly surprised," he added.
Harendar Kumar, MD-Institutional Equiites, Elara Capital Earnings have been actually quite positive and if we look at the data carefully it suggests that earnings surprises to the downgrades have been on the higher side which is what is helping the market to hold up.
"Sectors that have been showing results are pretty much where the structural positioning is good which include consumer staples and cyclical.
Even telecom as well reporting very good numbers," Kumar said.
"I think in this context the numbers are very-very robust after eight-nine quarters of disappointment and obviously this will bring in a level of anticipation after the monsoons as well.
I think the markets will kind of read into that and behave accordingly," he said.
S Nagnath, President & CIO, DSP BlackRock Growth for fiscal 2017 ought to be well above 7 per cent, and early estimates for monsoon rains suggest that it will be good which is great for markets because we had two years of suboptimal rains.
"More importantly corporate earnings growth which has been in the mid to low single digits my expectation since the beginning of the year has been that this year fiscal 2017 you should see it around 15%," said Nagnath.
"Lately, I am seeing a lot more people subscribing to the fact that it could be in the range of 15% or more that will underpin strong performance for Indian equities in the next 12 to 24 months," he added.
Vikas Khemani, President & CEO, Edelweiss Securities Khemani said corporate earnings have by and large delivered as per expectations.
Wherever there were issues they will still take some time.
"It may not happen immediately but markets have kind of by and large factored that in.
So I am not at all disappointed with the corporate earnings and whatever has come so far," he added.
From an investment perspective, investors like growth, investors like to see if some organisations are capturing the growth very well and which is what these companies are doing.