May 2nd 2016, 7:30by A.W.
| WASHINGTON, DC
Back in February United and American Airlines announced they were joining Delta Air Lines in introducing“basic economy”, a new class of fare below standard.
This doesn’t mean sitting even farther back in the plane, but it removes the few perks that economy passengers still enjoy, chiefly the ability to select one’s seat before checking in (and to ensure that parties travelling together could sit together).
The early reviews were universally negative—except for the only one that counts.
Because basic economy, it seems, is quite profitable for the airlines.
Delta, which introduced basic economy on a limited scale in 2012 and announced an expansion last year, has now released a report on its financials.
In the first three months of this year, the airline says, basic economy earned Delta an additional $20m in revenue.
Delta is planning to expand the fare class beyond the roughly 1,650 routes (8% of the airline’s total routes) it currently serves.
Once United and American introduce it later this year, it’ll become a relatively standard feature of flying on US carriers.
That news is likely to be met with further groans from flyers, who have complained that the last remaining pleasures of air travel are being slowly stripped away.
And yet it’s what flyers are voting for—if not with their voices, then with their wallets.
In a recent survey conducted by an airline-industry group, passengers urged airlines to provide more legroom and comfort.
But they also revealed that they make their flying decisions based on price above all other factors.
In other words, what they say they want isn’t what they’re actually willing to pay for.
The introduction of basic economy could be greeted as part of a trend of good news for flyers: travelling by air is getting cheaper.
The average US fare is now at its lowest level since 2010.
Much of that can be attributed to lower fuel prices.
But for cash-strapped travellers, the ability to pay a slightly lower price in exchange for sacrificing a few privileges can be the difference between flying and not flying.
For an industry trying to expand its customer base, and for some of those customers themselves, that’s surely a welcome development.
“If you’re shopping for just solely price, we want to have a product that can compete effectively and provide the best services against carriers who are providing a much lower quality of service” Delta’s chief revenue officer, Glen Hauenstein, recently told analysts, according to the Los Angeles Times —a dig at the low-cost airlines, such as Spirit and Frontier, against which basic economy is intended to compete.
For many other flyers, however, the arrival of basic economy represents yet one more area in which they’re given an unwelcome choice: pay extra or be subjugated to further indignities.
Like it or not, they’d better get used to it.
PreviousBad Spirit:
Yet another airline ranking
Next
Our correspondents inform and entertain business travellers with news and views to help them make the most of life on the road
Democracy in America May 4th, 19:32
Science and technology May 4th, 18:00
Science and technology May 4th, 17:24
Democracy in America May 4th, 16:50
Graphic detail May 4th, 16:34
Graphic detail May 4th, 16:30
Middle East and Africa May 4th, 14:53
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more