 The Reserve Bank of India proposes to make it more onerous for banks to lend to highly leveraged companies.
The Reserve Bank of India proposes to make it more onerous for banks to lend to highly leveraged companies.
MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India proposes to make it more onerous for banks to lend to highly leveraged companies.
According to a discussion paper released on Thursday evening, banks will need to set aside more capital and earnings if they give extra loans to debt-laden companies with effect from FY18.
The total exposure per borrower is pegged at Rs 25,000 crore in FY18 , at Rs 15,000 crore in FY19 and Rs 10,000 crore in FY10.
Any additional exposure to a single borrower above this limit during the given time frame will attract higher provisions and require additional capital.
This would be the first time that capital and provisions are linked to a single borrower.
The move follows an internal study by RBI that shows there is a high concentration of credit risk at the systemic level in the banking sector.
RBI has asked banks to put a cap on the loan amount on group exposure, but there is no ceiling on total bank borrowing by a corporate entity.
As a result, banks have collectively taken large exposures to some of the big corporates, particularly in the power, infrastructure , housing finance and steel sectors.
RBI is of the view that this poses a collective concentration risk to the banking sector, even when the group borrower exposure for each bank is capped.
It has suggested a 3% provision on standard assets on the incremental exposure that is in excess of the limit set by the RBI.
This provision will be distributed in proportion to each bank's funded exposure to the borrower.
Further, additional risk weight of 75% would be applicable for the exposure to the borrower.
The resultant additional risk weighted exposure, in terms of risk weighted assets (RWA), will be distributed in proportion to each bank's funded exposure to the specified borrower.
RBI felt a need for such a framework since the single borrower exposure limit linked to Tier 1 capital may not be adequate to contain the risk that banks may face.
The central bank said it had the option to impose a hard monetary ceiling or put in place prudential measures.
It prefers the latter since a sudden imposition of a hard limit on aggregate lending to a corporate may destabilise the credit intermediation process, particularly in the absence of well-developed alternate channels.
Secondly, the corporate bond market is not well developed and lacks depth.
Email