NABARD Chief General Manager Dr P M Ghole (Punjab Region) says, " This is a pilot project limited in Fazilka so far and if all goes well, we may implement it in other districts in Punjab.
For sure we are excited and see the farmers benefiting by way new technologies in agriculture sector.
So far this company has a call centre catering to around 3000 farmers and App is expected soon."
Zamindara Farming Solutions Founder Vikram Ahuja says,"we are trying to evolve a model wherein we provide, hi technology , business and implements to farmers.
Farmers - a section, largely considered to be not in sync with the Modi Governments "Digital India " are getting helping hand to understand advanced technology in agri implements from Companies like Agroman- Gurugram based company headed by Vikas Goyal.
"Agriculture in India has its unique characteristics and same is true for the challenges in Indian agriculture sector.
Most of the agriculture industry is unorganised and there are no standards and industry benchmarks.
Indian farmers are not at the forefront of technological advancement.
Due to small landholdings and lack of capital most of farmers use age old practices for farming and are dependent on government subsidies and programs.
There is huge information asymmetry among stakeholders which results in low efficiency and low productivity.
That is where we come in, " Agroman Founder- Vikas Goyal says, claiming that his company is India's first integrated agriculture marketplace which is providing all kind of agri-services to farmers.
"Our online sale model is an assisted by our agri experts so that a farmer makes a right choice."
To solve the issue of internet penetration in villages, Agroman has tied up with Vayam Technologies.
Delhi based Vayam Technologies operate more than 4500 Customer Service Centre (CSCs) in villages.
Agroman is in advance talks with other CSC operators for similar tieups.
CSC will interact with farmers and gather their requirements and act as catalyst to develop and grow market.
This will not only generate demand but also bring technology at door steps of rural households.
Company is helping the farmers to purchase all the inputs required for their agriculture activities.
Agroman has started with agriculture machinery which is the biggest purchase decision a farmer take.
Agroman.in was launched in November 2015 as a product and price discovery platform.
"We are targeting 70% of Indian population who is dependent on agriculture.
With Govt.
of India focusing on mechanization, it is right time for farmers to get benefitedand improve yield.
Agroman is supporting the cause by bring information and convenience to the farmers.
agroman.in will cater to both buy and sell sides thru online mandi for farmers,online sales of agri-inputs, information about government schemes and subsidy" said Mr Goyal.
Vinay Sharma, ET BureauApr 13, 2016, 07.25PM IST
(This time its an "App" for…)
CHANDIGARH: This time its an "App" for sharing tractors and agriculture implements on lines of a Radio taxi- Uber and Ola aiming to reduce the cost each farmer has to bear.
NABARD has funded the Rs 25 Lakh project of Fazilka based company "Zamindara Farming Solutions" thats providing services to 3000 farmers in the area.
The agri bank has launched " chalak baney Malik" scheme, under which tillers , farmers will be given loan at low rates .
The amount of EMI will be deducted from the business they generate and eventually a farmer becomes the tractor/ implement owner.