IF ANY other lift-off were so sluggish, you would not want to be aboard the rocket.
In December the Federal Reserve raised interest rates from close to zero, where they had been since 2008, to between 0.25% and 0.5%.
At the time members of its rate-setting committee said they expected four more increases in 2016.
Not any more.
Shortly after lift-off, stockmarkets, which always doubted the Fed’s plans, tumbled on fears that disappointing growth in China would drag down the world economy.
The S&P 500 lost 11% between the start of the year and its trough in mid-February.
Surging spreads (the excess interest over government borrowing) on corporate bonds, often a sign of imminent economic woe, caused some pundits to predict a recession.
And market-based measures of inflation expectations slumped.
At one point in February, the gap between yields on inflation-protected bonds and the regular kind implied that inflation would average just 0.9% over five years—the lowest projection since 2009.
Unsurprisingly, the Fed held fire in January and March.
Janet Yellen, the Fed’s chairman, made it clear that global turbulence had forced a change of plan.
Most of the rate-setters now forecast just two rate rises in 2016, bringing them into line with what the markets were forecasting in December.
But markets, too, have adjusted their expectations downwards.
Today, they reckon there is a one-in-three chance of no rate rises at all this year.
Last autumn the Fed signalled very clearly that it was preparing to raise rates.
Its statement after the meeting that concluded on April 27th sent no such signal.
Three-quarters of the economists polled before the meeting by the Wall Street Journal had expected a rate rise in June, at what is now the Fed’s next meeting.
After this week’s dovish statement, they will surely put back that date.
It is easy to see why the economists were wrong-footed.
Markets have mostly shaken off their start-of-year woes (see Buttonwood ).
Oil prices have rebounded.
On a trade-weighted basis the dollar, which had surged by 6% between the start of August and the end of January, is almost back where it started, as money has rushed out of dollar-denominated assets and into previously shunned investments elsewhere.
Most important, the labour market continues to fizz.
Payrolls swelled by 215,000 in March—well above the level of employment growth needed to reduce slack in the economy.
Even the labour-force participation rate, which had tumbled, is now recovering (see article ).
Ms Yellen recently said the Fed is “coming close” to its goal of full employment.
Inflation—the Fed’s other target—is also rising.
The Fed’s preferred index of core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, is up by 1.7% year on year.
The last time it was this high was in July 2014, just before oil prices tanked.
Headline inflation is lower, at only 1%, but core inflation is generally a better predictor of where the headline rate is headed.
As a result, simple so-called “Taylor rules” for monetary policy, which take into account both unemployment and inflation, suggest that lift-off is well behind schedule.
This is true even when you adjust them in ways that Ms Yellen has advocated (see chart).
Why, then, the delay?
Weak growth is one explanation.
Growth in the first quarter of 2016, due to be revealed as The Economist went to press, was expected to be lacklustre, at less than 1% annualised.
With the labour market creating so many jobs, GDP is stalling because of measly rises in productivity.
There is little the Fed can do about that.
By the Fed’s standards, in short, the case for a rate rise on the basis of the domestic economy is strong.
The new statement also sounded less concerned about the world economy.
The Fed may have proved dovish so far this year, but that could change sooner than the markets seem to think.