IN THE suburbs of Des Moines, Iowa, yellow diggers slowly knock chunks out of a tired-looking bridge.
Beneath lies Interstate 80, one of America’s economic arteries, which traces the route of the Lincoln highway—the first road to cross America—from New York to San Francisco.
The bridge impedes traffic both on the highway—it is too low—and over it—it is too narrow.
Its replacement will be a third wider, making room for cycle lanes and more traffic, and six inches higher, allowing bigger lorries to pass beneath.
The diggers are out across Iowa, which embarked on a five-year programme to upgrade its bridges and highways in January.
Elsewhere, however, the diggers sit idle.
America’s government invests much too little in infrastructure.
A study in 2013 by the American Society of Civil Engineers claimed that additional spending of $1.6 trillion, in 2010 dollars, is needed by 2020 to bring the quality of the country’s infrastructure up from “poor” to “good”.
Roads are a particular problem: over the past decade, America’s roads have fallen from seventh to fourteenth in the World Economic Forum’s rankings of the quality of infrastructure.
Part of the problem is that the federal tax on petrol (gasoline), which provides most of the funding for federal spending on roads, has been stuck at 18.4 cents per gallon since 1993.
Over that period the price of construction materials and the wages of construction workers have both risen by more than 75%.
Happily, the federal government is responsible only for about a quarter of spending on highways.
States are keener to raise local taxes on petrol: 12 did so in the year to January.
Iowa’s rise was the sharpest.
Since last year Iowans have paid 31 cents per gallon to the state, up from 21 cents per gallon—a rate set in 1989.
Most states tax by the gallon and so have also benefited from the falling oil price, which has boosted petrol sales.
Nationally, they are up by 3% on a year ago.
Since 2013 state and local governments’ net investment (ie, after depreciation) is up by about a quarter.
In contrast, federal net investment, which was barely positive in 2013, is now negative, meaning that Congress is not even spending enough to maintain what it has.
In the aftermath of the financial crisis, states cut investment to balance their budgets, while the federal government upped its spending as part of a stimulus program.
Now the reverse is true: state and local investment adds to growth, while falling federal investment is a drag on it (see chart).
Investment by Iowa’s state government rose by 7% last year, according the National Association of Budget Officers.
The state will raise about $215 million from its petrol-tax increase in 2016, says Stuart Anderson of the Iowa Department of Transportation.
There is less political gridlock than in Congress.
Even so, getting the petrol tax up took more than a decade of studies and consultations.
And needs remain: addressing all the state’s infrastructure problems would require an increase five times as big.
The federal government has made some progress.
In late 2015 Congress reached a deal to fund highway spending until 2020, having previously relied on a series of short-term compromises.
This encouraged states to invest by removing the risk that federal funds would suddenly dry up, causing projects to be cancelled, says Mr Anderson.
The deal also provided some new cash—the White House says road funding will increase by 4%—but, bizarrely, paid for this by raiding the capital of the Federal Reserve.
Further petrol-tax rises are scheduled for the next 12 months in Michigan, Nebraska and Washington.
Politicians in other states, including Alabama, Hawaii and Louisiana, are considering raising their levies this year.
In spite of this progress, however, local petrol taxes still have the same problem as the federal one: they tend to be fixed in nominal terms, such that inflation erodes their value over time.
As a result, politicians must burn political capital just to stand still.
And unrelated problems may yet jeopardise local investment: slowing growth in other local tax receipts is raising a “yellow flag” for state budgets, according to the Rockefeller Institute, a think-tank.
That means Congress must find a way to finance more federal investment, especially once the latest deal expires in 2020.
Hillary Clinton, the front-runner for the presidency, promises a modest $275 billion increase in spending.
More will be needed, or America’s roads and bridges will continue to crumble, diggers or not.