Amid high market volatility last year, investors took refuge in balanced funds.
Net inflows into balanced funds, which invest in a mix of equity and debt instruments, more than doubled to Rs 19,743 crore in 2015-16.
Steady returns and equity fund-like tax treatment have made them popular.
But their more sophisticated cousins, the dynamic asset allocation funds, which have performed better over the past year, haven't got the same attention.
Here's why: Difference in approach While both balanced and dynamic funds follow an asset allocation approach—investing in debt and equity based on market conditions— they differ in their approach to juggling the asset mix.
While balanced funds maintain a steady exposure to equity and debt, dynamic asset allocation funds switch aggressively.
They can invest between zero and 100% in equity, depending on the market situation.
"The degree of flexibility is much wider in dynamic asset allocation," says Kaustubh Belapurkar, Director, Fund Research, Morningstar India.
Balanced funds typically invest at least 65% of their corpus in equity, and the rest in debt.
The equity portion varies between 65% and 75%.
The good and the bad While both the categories attempt to contain volatility in returns, dynamic asset allocation funds score over balanced funds in this respect.
Across different time frames, they have exhibited a lower standard deviation (around 0.4%)—a measure of volatility in a fund's return.
So, even though balanced funds have delivered better returns over longer time frames, these have come at a slightly higher risk—standard deviation of over 0.7%—compared to dynamic funds.
What also works in favour of dynamic funds is they do away with the need to actively monitor and rebalance the portfolio.
With rising equity market valuations, these funds will invest a larger portion of the corpus in debt and cash while cutting down on equities.
Declining market valuations will automatically trigger ramp up in allocation to equities while slashing exposure to debt.
"Dynamic funds are beneficial to those who do not have the stomach for timing the market.
Since the fund does the rebalancing automatically, they do not have to worry about where to put their money," says Arun Gopalan, VP, Research, Systematix Shares and Stocks.
Dynamic asset allocation funds, however, fall short on tax efficiency.
Equity-oriented balanced funds typically maintain a 65% exposure to equities, and qualify for better tax treatment compared with dynamic funds.
Gains realised after one year are tax-free for the investor, even the debt portion incurs no tax.
However, most dynamic asset allocation funds follow the Fund of Funds structure— where the fund invests in other equity and debt funds—so are taxed as non-equity funds, irrespective of their level of exposure to equities.
For other schemes, which invest directly in stocks and bonds, the taxation depends on the average level of exposure to equities during the year.
If at the time of exiting the scheme, it has maintained, on an average, 65% of its corpus in equities for that particular year, the scheme is treated as an equity fund for taxation purpose.
Otherwise, any realised gains are taxed along the lines of a debt fund, making the scheme taxinefficient.
Another problem with dynamic funds is that their investing models are not alike.
"The different approaches may be difficult to understand," says Lakshmi Iyer, CIO, Debt and Head of Products at Kotak Mutual Fund.
While most switch between equity and debt, based on the relative valuation of the two segments, they use different metrics to gauge the extent to which markets are under-or over-valued.
For instance, Franklin India Dynamic PE Ratio and Principal Smart Equity decides allocation based on the PE multiple of the underlying index, ICICI Prudential Dynamic Fund goes by the Nifty's price-to-book value and DSP BlackRock Dynamic Asset Allocation Fund considers the 10-year government bond yield over earnings yield of the Nifty.
Dynamic or balanced?
Given their flexible structure, dynamic asset allocation funds should be best suited to capture market opportunities, but the aggressive rebalancing sometimes acts as a handicap for the funds as they cannot capture the market upside effectively.
That is why experts say balanced funds are a better choice for managing risk for most investors.
"Investors would be better off with a flexible allocation within a narrower band with a plain vanilla balanced fund," says Belapurkar.
Both dynamic and balanced funds have exposure to equity and debt asset classes, but balanced funds are tax-efficient and have a better track record.