Why is gold one of the most valuable metals in human history?
Gold was among the first metals to be mined since it occurs in its native form.
It is also amongst the densest metals and does not get corroded in ordinary conditions.
These characteristics make it a universally accepted material for exchange of goods and services.
What is the annual global demand for gold?
According to the World Gold Council (WGC), global gold demand was 4,212.2 tonnes in 2015.
Over half or 57.3% of this was for jewellery, followed by 'bar and coins' for investment (24%), demand by central banks (14%) and by industry for technological applica tions (7.9%).
The technology applications of gold include use of the metal for fabrication of electronics, dental and medical applications.
Which countries account for the bulk of the demand?
Data compiled by the WGC shows that in 2015 China was the world's largest consumer of gold, accounting for about 29% of the global demand.
India was next, with about a quarter of the global demand.
Together, these two countries thus constituted more than half of the global demand.
Which countries are the major suppliers?
According to estimates by the US Geological Survey, in 2015 about 3,000 tonnes of gold was mined globally .
China mined more than 16% of this gold, the highest in the world.
It was followed by Australia, Russia, the US and Canada.Together, these countries produced about 50% of the total gold mined
How much gold has been extracted so far and what are the reserves?
The WGC estimates that about 1.75 lakh tonnes of gold have been mined since the beginning of civilisation.
This estimate is slightly higher than an earlier Thomson Reuters GFMS estimate of 1.71 lakh tonnes.
If one goes by the WGC estimate, this gold would fit into a cube with sides measuring 21 metres (68 feet) -roughly the height of a six story building.
Is there a correlation between gold prices and the stock market?
Although there is no way to predict future prices, gold prices have generally been seen to be inversely correlated to the movement of stock market indices.
Gold has also generally been a good long term investment.
When the market is improving and stock prices are going up, some investors move from gold to stock markets for short term gains, causing a decrease in demand and hence price.
During a stock market crash, investors tend to move to gold, pushing its prices up.
Data compiled by WGC shows that in 2015 China was the world's largest consumer of gold, accounting for 29% of the global demand.