Are we looking at a multi-year bull run?
I think the market has not yet priced in the full potential of the economy.
For the first time, a true nationalist has come to power with a clear majority.
There is a new-found energy across the nation.
My sense is that the market has not yet understood the difference between 300-plus seats for NDA and 272-plus seats for BJP alone.
Look at how the cabinet posts have been assigned — BJP allies have got limited posts and their negotiating power is diminished.
Complete power is in the hands of the government.
The political scenario is drastically different now.
The economy is on the cusp of a historical positive change.
It is the same vehicle, but the driver has changed.
It is now being steered by a formula-one driver.
So, the acceleration will be dramatic.
It will become visible very quickly.
Today we are growing at 4.5 per cent.
Growth is likely to pick up pace rapidly in the next few years.
A lot of things will happen in five years.
It will be interesting to see the index level at that time.
In the process, investors will make tons of money, because the market will discount that growth two years in advance.
It will not wait for the fifth year.
If all domestic and global factors align, markets will go through the roof.
Are there challenges to the fragile economic recovery?
The current optimism is because a major variable — the shambolic political setup — has been corrected.
There is no doubt that the new government has been fully empowered in this election; the mandate has been given to an extremely competent individual.
Right now, everybody is bullish.
But one must have tempered expectations.
Finally, directives from the Centre have to be executed well at the state level.
Otherwise it will be a waste.
There are many things that are still not in Modi's hands.
A lot of other factors will also play a role.
Good monsoons, favourable global environment, peaceful borders, etc., can change the entire scenario.
But, only time will tell how many stars will align.
So, a lot will depend on external factors.
I am also keenly watching how the new government tackles inflation, which is just a symptom of a much deeper problem somewhere else.
The government has to address supply-side bottlenecks.
A weak currency cannot make a strong country.
That is why, inflation must go down.
It will be the beginning of development, investments, and so on.
The rally, so far, has been driven by hope.
When will fundamentals take over?
News headlines, and making money are two entirely different things.
We should not get carried away by the headlines.
The focus must be on who will actually make money.
In most cases, it will be a company which is making money right now.
Very rarely will a company that is broke today make money tomorrow, unless there is a complete change in business dynamics.
Today, we do not have anything to go by.
So, wherever there are anomalies in the economy, these will come back to normal levels.
Right now, it is only about the promise of a better tomorrow.
Some of these promises will have to take shape in the budget.
Narendra Nathan & Sanket Dhanorkar, ET BureauJun 2, 2014, 08.00AM IST
(Directives from the Centre…)
The central government has complete power with a clear mandate, but directives from the Centre have to be executed well at the state level.
So, there are many things that are still not in Modi's hands, says Raamdeo Agrawal , Joint Managing Director, Motilal Oswal Financial Services in an interview with Narendra Nathan and Sanket Dhanorkar .
What should be the first priority for the new government?
India has to become much more business friendly.
Finally, the country needs to create jobs for its rising young population.
Who will create these jobs?
More than the government, it is the businesses which will create jobs.
Businesses can create jobs only if the business environment is friendly.
They also cannot sustain growth without creating jobs.
So, the government has to become business friendly.
All hurdles should be removed.
We need businesses to take more risks as it will result in more jobs.
Will mid-cap stocks continue to perform better than large-caps for now?