Despite its huge base, HDFC has been able to maintain its industry-beating growth momentum and reported a 14% year-on-year (y-o-y) growth in its loan book for the last quarter of 2015-16.
Individual loan book, which contributes around 70% of the bank's entire loan book, has done better with 16% y-o-y growth.
HDFC's individual loan origination (processing of loan applications) has grown by an annualised 20% in the past five years, compared to the industry growth rate of around 15%.Though increased competition may moderate HDFC's growth rate, its individual loan origination is expected to grow by more than 15% in the coming years.
The company's large branch network, strong brand, in-house model— 83% of the loans are sourced in house—dedicated and efficient management, are some of the reasons fuelling its growth.
The housing finance industry is also expected to see a good growth in the coming years.
The demand-supply gap for housing in India is still huge and increased urbanisation and nuclearisation of families is increasing this gap.
HDFC's margins, however, fell a bit due to reduction in lending rates and lower income from other liquid investments.
Margins may remain at these lower levels in the coming years.
Though the company's cost of funds is expected to come down in the coming quarters due to the fall in the interest rate structure, this will be offset by lower lending rates.
With a 100% provision coverage ratio, HDFC can boast that it has the best asset quality parameters in the industry.
Its gross nonperforming assets also were stable during 2015-16 at Rs 1,833 crore or .07% of its loan book.
HDFC made an additional provision of Rs 450 crore in the last quarter, utilising part of the exceptional gains made from the sale of stake in its life insurance business.And, with this, the total provision available for contingencies has gone up to Rs 2,695 crore—1.03% of its loan book—and this should provide comfort in the coming years.
HDFC is, deservedly, trading at a premium compared to peers.
Besides its steady standalone performance, the company is also a treasure mine because of its holdings in several performing subsidiaries— HDFC Bank, HDFC Mutual Fund, HDFC Standard Life Insurance, HDFC Ergo General Insurance.
The company has monetised its 9% stake in the life insurance business and booked a profit of Rs 1,513 crore, helping it show a 40% y-o-y net profit growth in last quarter.
Any confirmed news about further monetisation of the insurance businesses through IPO route will be a key trigger for this counter.
Selection methodology: We pick the stock that has shown the maximum increase in 'consensus analyst rating' in the past one month.
Consensus rating is arrived at by averaging all analyst recommendations after attributing weights to each of them (5 for strong buy, 4 for buy, 3 for hold, 2 for sell and 1 for strong sell) and any improvement in consensus analyst rating indicates that the analysts are getting more bullish on the stock.To make sure that we pick only companies with decent analyst coverage, this search is restricted to stocks that are covered by at least 10 analysts.
You can see similar consensus analyst rating changes during the past week in the ETW 50 table.
Though increased competition may moderate HDFC’s growth rate, its individual loan origination is expected to grow by over 15% in the coming years.