No new commex futures till sure of liquidity: Sebi
Cross-border pacts to help banks recover dues from abroad: Govt
AT&T, Virgin Media look to redial India
Small towns help Speed Post double revenue in 5 years
AI hits gold with direct Valley flight
HDFC Ergo, L&T Gen in merger talks
Smirnoff hangover adds to Diageo’s Indian woes
RBI to open permanent window for bank licences
Govt drops cap gains tax on startup shares held for 2 yrs
Pankaj Doval Honda looks to grab a share of the fast-growing SUV market with the launch of BR-V, which will compete with heavyweights such as Hyundai Creta, Renault Duster and Mahindra Scorpio.
| TNN | May 6, 2016, 04.01 AM ISTNEW DELHI: Honda looks to grab a share of the fast-growing SUV market with the launch of BR-V, which will compete with heavyweights such as Hyundai Creta, Renault Duster and Mahindra Scorpio.
The 7-seater BR-V sports 1,500cc petrol and diesel engines and has been built on the platform on which Brio mini, Amaze entry sedan and Mobilio MPV have been developed.
The petrol variant of the model will cost between Rs 8.75 lakh and Rs 11.99 lakh, while diesel models will come for between Rs 9.9 lakh and Rs 12.9 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi).While Honda hopes to boost numbers on the back of the new model, the market does not seem to be highly enthused as it lacks some of the bold, rugged SUV characteristics, and resembles the largely-unsuccessful Mobilio MPV.
Honda officials downplayed the issue, calling BR-V as a "cross-over utility vehicle."
Despite a 2% growth in its overall volumes in 2015-16, Honda's Indian operations have been under pressure over the past few months as models such as Mobilio and Brio are struggling.
The shift of the market towards petrol variants has also added pressure on the company as it looks to re-strategise its Indian production towards diesel variants.Yoichiro Ueno, the newly-appointed president and CEO of Honda India, said the company is looking to add newer models and have greater customer orientation to boost sales.
"India is a large market and we will focus across segments for a greater play here.
""The current diesel technology is clean.
We would like it more if manufacturers get enough time to change product plans in case changes are made to diesel regulations.
"Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia