Hitesh Puri, marketing manager at JSW Steel, recently walked into a mobile phone store and weighed several options, including a Samsung Galaxy S7.
In the end, he settled for the 64 GB version of the iPhone 6S.
It cost him Rs 61,000.
Puri is part of a growing demographic of Indians whose rising disposable incomes have made them extremely brand conscious.Millions like Puri have made India the fastest growing smartphone market in the world.
One of the biggest beneficiaries of Indians' affinity for costly smartphones has been iPhone maker Apple.
On April 26, when Apple announced its second quarter results, India was one of the few bright spots as the world's most valuable company posted its first quarterly decline in revenue at 13% in 13 years.
Falling sales by 26% in Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, which has long been Apple's growth engine, were responsible for the sharp decline.
But In India, iPhone sales were up 56% from a year ago, said Apple CEO Tim Cook in an earnings call.
On Monday, Cook said Apple sees a "huge market potential" for its products in India.
"People really want smartphones there," Cook said in a CNBC interview.
New Interest Cook's comments mark a distinct change in the manner in which Apple is looking at India.
Until two years ago, India didn't even figure in Apple quarterly earnings or on its global operations' key metrics.
Something changed about two-three years ago.
Apple began to take India seriously.
It has since offered discounts, buybacks and EMI schemes on all its phones.
It recently launched a new handset called the iPhone SE at Rs 39,000.
An iPhone 6S 16 GB Rose Gold version is available at 24% less today on Infibeam, Apple's authorised online seller, compared with its launch price of Rs 62,000 in October 2015.
Compare that with five years ago when the iPhone 4S was launched in India.
The cheapest variant, the 16GB model, was priced at Rs 44,500, the 32GB model at Rs 50,900 and the 64GB at Rs 57,500 respectively.
All these moves affirm that Apple is finally recognising the huge growth potential India offers.
Now, Apple wants to set up its own stores India (it is awaiting a final nod from the Finance Minister).
The company is also expanding its retail footprint through more distributors — Ingram Micro, Redington, Rashi Peripherals and Beetel Teletech — and adding more reseller stores across India.
That still doesn't explain the uptick in iPhone sales.
Despite the discounts, an iPhone is still not cheap.
Far from it.
To be sure, India is a price-conscious market and about 70% of smartphones sold fall in the Rs 5,000-15,000 band, called the affordable segment, in which local players like Micromax, Intex, Lava and Karbonn dominate sales.
Apple is still a minuscule player in this segment despite making available the iPhone 5s — its highest selling phone — for around Rs 15,000 until a month ago.
Prices have shot up since.
Small wonder then that India accounts for only a small part of Apple's business.
The company has about 2% share of the Indian smartphone market, according to Hong Kong-based Counterpoint Research.
Status Symbol Even so, the iPhone has a massive brand pull — it embodies affluence and trend — and consumers continue to be enthralled by the product.
Brand consultant Harish Bijoor says the iPhone is the Harley Davidson of smartphones.
"It has the potential to get away with price murder."
He says the phone's "out-ofreach pricing" actually works for it, giving it a high aspirational value.
That apart, the phone's technical features and aesthetics continue to impress consumers.
Indeed, several customers like Divya Virmani, a chartered accounting student, who along with her siblings, are not willing to try any other product than the iPhone.
"My family is crazy about Apple; no other brand matters."
In India, many people view a pricey smartphone as a status symbol.
The Apple faithful actually update their iPhones after every launch.
"When a consumer wants to own a premium brand which can not only create a wow impact on him but even his surroundings, he goes for an iPhone," said Vishal Tripathi, research director at Gartner.
That means the Indian market could continue to grow in double digits for Apple for a few years.
More and more consumers are expected to switch to smartphones from low-cost feature phone phones in the coming quarters.
India is now the second largest after China in terms of active smartphone users at 220 million, surpassing the US.
At a time when global smartphone growth is flat, India's smartphone volumes grew 23% on-year in the quarter ended March 2016.
"I view India as where China was maybe seven to ten years ago from that point of view, and I think there's a really great opportunity there," said Cook in the earnings call.
But India could turn out to be different from China.
In that country, Apple gained market share from 2014 on the back of iPhones sold through contracts with Unicom, the largest carrier.
India remains an open market.
That means Apple will have to rely on retail, majority of which is offline, including large format stores like Croma and Reliance Digital, multi-brand stores and thousands of mom-and-pop shops, as the primary sales channel for pushing iPhones to the customer.
Also, the Indian smartphone user is not as affluent or mature as the Chinese smartphone user and therefore it will take at least 4-5 years for a bulk of users to upgrade to higher priced iPhones.
Even so, the renewed interest and change of tack bode well for Apple in India.
The company wants to sell pre-owned certified or second hand phones in India, in an attempt to address the massive customer base in the affordable segment.
The government is against this move though.
"Apple's strategy in India is to sell more phones and not necessarily new phones," says Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research.
"The aspirational factors is higher (in India) than anywhere else in the world."