 India does not have an information exchange agreement with Panama though negotiations have been on for some time but without much headway.
India does not have an information exchange agreement with Panama though negotiations have been on for some time but without much headway.
NEW DELHI: The government has written to Panama seeking information on Indians, who figure in the list of people, who have set up offshore entities using the tax haven as base.On Wednesday, New Delhi's attempts to get the information has got a boost, with Panama along with others joining the international standard of automatic exchange of financial account information to tackle tax evasion and avoidance.
"We have written to Panama through diplomatic channels seeking information," revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia told ET.
As many as 2,000 Indian names figure in the list revealed by International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.
India needs more information to proceed against those mentioned in the list.
India does not have an information exchange agreement with Panama though negotiations have been on for some time but without much headway.
New Delhi is now relying on global pressure building up on the tax haven to come around to have active information exchange.
On Wednesday, OECD, Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes said Bahrain, Lebanon, Nauru, Panama and Vanuatu have committed to share financial account information automatically with other countries.
India would benefit from Panama becoming part of the automatic information exchange framework.
New Delhi is already a signatory to it.
The latest commitments call for beginning such exchanges in September 2018.
The government will also make a fresh attempt to have an information exchange agreement with the country.
Absence of investments flow makes it difficult for India to opt for imposing harsh measures like it was done in the case of Cyprus.
Though preliminary inquires point out that accounts are being set up using the RBI liberalised remittances scheme window but tax authorities have already initiated action to ascertain facts.
Adhia said India does not get investments from Panama and it is used largely to set up structures abroad.
The issue of 'Panama expose' has been discussed by the special investigation team on black money.
The government has set up a multiagency probe to look into the issue.
INDIA SIGNS AGREEMENT Canada , Iceland , India, Israel , New Zealand and China on Thursday signed the Multilateral Competent Authority agreement for the automatic exchange of Country-by-Country reports.
As many as 39 countries signed this agreement.
All will bilaterally and automatically exchange Country-by-Country Reports with each other.
"It will help ensure that tax administrations obtain a complete understanding of how MNEs structure their operations, while also ensuring that the confidentiality of such information is safeguarded," OECD said in a statement.
Email