By PTI | 8 May, 2016, 12.41PM IST
Amid abnormal delays in rewarding government servants and other informers, the Central Board of Excise and Customs has also asked the top officials to protect the identity of informers at all cost.
NEW DELHI: Stepping up fight against smuggling and tax evasion, CBEC has streamlined norms for expeditiously rewarding informers who help authorities check revenue loss to the exchequer.
Amid abnormal delays in rewarding government servants and other informers, the Central Board of Excise and Customs has also asked the top officials to protect the identity of informers at all cost.
After noticing that "several complaints are being received regarding delay in disbursal of rewards to informers," CBEC has asked entities concerned to maintain records of information received in this regard.
"All the cases booked on or after April 1, 2005 where reward disbursal to informers is pending...shall be entered into the register," said a circular issued by anti-smuggling unit of CBEC with respect to monitoring of pendency in the disbursal of rewards to informers.
Three months time has been given to complete the exercise.
"Adequate care shall be taken not to leave or miss out any case while maintaining this record.
"It shall be the responsibility of the Deputy/Assistant Commissioner in charge of rewards in the respective formation to ensure and certify that all the pending cases have been entered into the register," the circular said.
CBEC further instructed the officers to take adequate care to maintain confidentiality and to ensure that while building or maintaining the information, "informers are not exposed at any cost".
In July last year, CBEC had asked its wings to put in place a suitable mechanism to monitor cases becoming "ripe for disbursal of rewards".
Besides, it had emphasised the need to review cases of reward to "government servants and informers which have become ripe for processing" by holding quarterly meetings.
It was done to ensure that rewards to informers are disbursed when due without any delay, the CBEC said.
Email