By Dinesh RohiraMost investment advice is geared towards buying.
This should come as no surprise as it's the buying of financial instruments that begins the entire investment process.
However, money can be made only when you sell.
This makes selling as important as making the investment, if not more.
It is of utmost importance that investors have an exit strategy.
But, when is the right time to sell?
The following guidelines can be of help:
Purpose-driven investing There has to be a purpose attached to every investment you make.
It could be to achieve a specific goal, targeted wealth appreciation and hedging inflation , among other things.
The objective will help you decide when to sell and at what price.
Decide a holding period It is very difficult to time the market, so, one should decide the investment time horizon.
This is usually linked to your goal.
A fixed holding period allows you to track and review your investments without getting worried by short-term volatility.
Investors can cash-out when the holding period ends.
Investment horizon also helps determine which asset class to invest in.
Book profits Many investors adopt a buy-and-hold strategy for their investment portfolio.
It is true that in the long run you benefit from the capital appreciation.
At the same time, it is important to keep a check on the potential returns an investment can deliver, based on its past history and valuations.
For instance, if the asset class has historically delivered a CAGR of 25%, but returns have surged by 30% in less than a year, you must sell at least a part of your investment and book profits.
Rebalance your portfolio Reviewing and rebalancing the portfolio helps optimise returns.
A timely review keeps you in charge of the investments and helps you identify what is going good and what is not.
You should review your portfolio every six months to identify the underperformers and rebalance the portfolio as per the recommended asset allocation.
Keep a track of the expected returns and focus on customized sell recommendations from your adviser.
This will minimise the risk in your overall portfolio.
The bottom line Any sale that results in a gain is a good sale.
When a sale results in a loss, and is accompanied by an understanding of why that loss occurred, it too may be considered a good sell.
Selling is bad when it is dictated by emotion instead of data and analysis.
Don't sell to just maximise returns, instead focus on the specific reason for selling—goal achievements, valuations, time and price.
( The author is Founder and CEO,5nance.com )
You can meet your financial objectives only when you cash out your investments.