So as I term it, it is a sensible act of a sensible government.
So is the suspense over and can you breathe easy?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: It is.
My point is if every country starts offering the same benefit, how is it helpful in attracting capital?
I can give you an example.
So we are coming to a stage where we are on the cusp of ending the benefits given by individual countries to non-resident investors because every country is giving it.
Therefore there is no real benefit to that country.
But the Mauritius route is a big route.
Now everything is crystal clear.
If opportunity is there, people will come.
Is there not a bull market there?
The story of Indian market was all about what the goras (foreigners) are doing.
But now domestics seem to have taken over.
Is that a very mature sign?
I can tell you one thing - the foreigners sold the Nifty to 2200 in 2009.
I do not have all these feelings and I think a lot, lot, lot of Indian money is coming but at present it is only a trickle.
ET Now: This actually happened...
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: That should not be a reason for us to not invite foreigners' money.
We should invite foreign capital.
We started gap down.
So I know the answer would be bullish here but let us talk about a level of bullishness at the current juncture.
I asked somebody what is your opinion?
So I said, the last time you told me the same, there was more emphasis on the word cautious and now more emphasis is on the word optimistic.
Apart from that, I do not think a good rise in this market can be avoided.
ET Now: Were you taken aback with what happened in the month of January and February?
I mean we got to respect markets.
ET Now: In December when we talked, you said the concern would be what has happed to the US financial markets but markets fell because of a crack in commodity prices.
Do you think that the adjustment we have seen in the world financial markets because of adjustment in commodity prices, is behind us?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: First of all, commodity prices are no indication of commodity consumption.
Today also, the yield on the Dow is more than the yield on the 10-year bond and another thing is the memory of the bulls is still too fresh.
Second thing is geopolitical and we cannot comment on that.
The third thing is in terms of interest rise at a very very slow pace.
We have never heard this before, we have never seen this before and that a large bank like Bank of Japan is adopting negative interest rates?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: It is said that you learn from history.
But what if there is no history and the western world, especially Japan has entered a phase of economic history, an economic situation which was never there before?
You have never had so much prosperity, you never had such longevity, you never had this kind of demographics before.
So frankly cannot say what is going to happen.
So how does one go about investing in this kind of an environment because investing is all about buying earning power?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Haan (yes).
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: I am saying I am not going to put any money into gold but I will advise you to have gold as some part of your assets.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Gold will do well when every country in the world wants to bring down its currency.
ET Now: Now if I look at the trade setup, two of the crowded trades in the world are reversing.
They both are reversing.
Dollar index has come down in a linear manner.
So do you think somewhere this is also an indication of normalisation?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: I was also thinking why is it that the dollar is falling in value?
See actually what has happened is that the major trading in the dollar is against the yen and the euro.
Now in the yen and the euro, you had the maximum, the loosest monetary policy that is possible.
I mean you have negative interest rates.
Now it is a fact that you cannot go say 0.25 bps, 0.50 bps.
So that is why I do not make so much of the rise in crude prices.
It fell from $110 to $28 and then it came up to $45.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: They are and they are going to remain in the bear market.
ET Now: But the problem with the commodity fall has been that companies lose earning power and that is why market went wrong in 2006.
There is a BHP Billiton.
The others are doing fine.
They are increasing production.
ET Now: So we should not get confused between commodity prices and the commodity demand.
When the commodity markets were in bull phase, with the kind of return on equity we are getting, people are just expanding capacities and all that came on stream.
It has been a mixed bag.
Once Indian companies get volume, you will be surprised at the growth in earnings and that is already happening in a lot of midcap companies.
Wherever there is volume growth, there is a disproportionate growth in profits.
ET Now: A name case would be Escorts?
ET Now: No, no I am just trying to understand from you.
ET Now: But in terms of trajectory, you think earnings expansion, margin expansion, growth expansion are here?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Yes absolutely.
ET Now: Last time we made a point that the valuation risk with midcap is higher than largecap but now that midcap companies are doing better, what do you make of the valuations?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Valuation is still higher.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: It depends on what phase you are in.
ET Now: So stick to the leader and but do you think are we in just beginning of a bull market or where is this bull market?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: I mean I think we had one phase which went from 6300 to 9100, I think we have started another phase.
I look at it in a very simplistic manner that Indian costs are very very low, Indian companies are getting size, Indian entrepreneurs have understood the market.
Why will this company not grow and the whole market has an absolute lottery.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Not at all because every rise have promise along with problems.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Well Lupin is my holding.
As of now you feel it is comfortable?
ET Now: Are you happy with the disclosures from Indigo?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: This time everything is properly done.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala : These statistics are nothing but a lie.
ET Now: Rallies, Escorts these are the kind of ideas you have had.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Whatever you feel.
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: I am not confused.
ET Now: So the new models which they are getting, they are getting a new platform, they are getting new models, the revised versions, is that making you hopeful?
They have debt, rarely have Indian companies debt on their balance sheet?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Why do you discuss Telco so much?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: Not necessarily, let us see if return on equity comes down and also I feel valuations in India will remain high because I think lots and lots and lots and lots of local money is going to come.
See there are certain companies which market terms as quality companies, high cash flows, dividends, good quality of profits, their valuations are quite demanding, otherwise I do not think valuations are demanding.
Is it not an act of immaturity?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala: No, no, I think we have thought and contemplated for six to nine months.
We were doing it and have done it beautifully.
ET Now: Would you like to thump the table and say that you are bullish?
I do not have to thump to prove my bullishness.
ET Now: So when do you think we could see a new high on the Nifty.
Will it be 12 months?
If I knew this I would have all the wealth of the world.
ET Now: Is there any day in your life you have not looked at markets?
It does not matter, even when I trade I do not look at markets....
About India?
So how can you be bearish?
Rakesh Jhunjhunwala : It is because there is going to be lot of uncertainty, there could be lot of uncertainty in the world, it is a good-- I mean I do not say put a major portfolio, but maybe low single digit allocation.