Missing MHA babu Anand Joshi cleared FCRA notice against Sunita Narain's CSEJoshi, who had been called for questioning by CBI on Wednesday, disappeared, and left a note with his family alleging “mental harassment”.
Joshi, who had been called for questioning by CBI on Wednesday, disappeared, and left a note with his family alleging “mental harassment”.
(In pic: Sunita Narain)
NEW DELHI: Trying to squeeze NGOs, that's what missing bureaucrat — Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) under-secretary Anand Joshi — had been up to, according to home ministry and Central Bureau of Investigation officials.
And among Joshi's targets were well-known environmentalist Sunita Narain and the Ford Foundation.In fact, Joshi first landed in an administrative controversy after he cleared a Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violation notice against Sunita Narain's non-governmental outfit Centre for Science & Environment (CSE) in September 2015.
Joshi, who had been called for questioning by CBI on Wednesday, disappeared, and left a note with his family alleging "mental harassment".
CBI had wanted to question Joshi for what the agency sees as his 'arbitrary' use of power in sending notices to NGOs.
Misuse of this power, senior home ministry officials said, came to light late last year when Narain had raised the issue with senior officials in North and South Block.
Joshi had authorised a notice against CSE that sought a report on alleged FCRA violations.
Home ministry and CBI officials spoke to ET on the condition they not be identified.
Narain's CSE was a key participant from India at the Paris climate change summit last year.
CSE participated in important events in Paris along with the environment ministry.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the climate change summit along with other important heads of state.
After Narain raised the matter, Joshi was moved out of the home ministry's FCRA division in the last week of December.
Speaking to ET, Narain said: "We received a letter from FCRA division of the home ministry last year and subsequently submitted our replies.
I did not hear from them after that."
A senior home ministry official told ET, "Joshi arbitrarily issued notices to NGOs and even after his transfer from the FCRA division he used to visit the division in an attempt to obtain documents related to FCRA.
We mounted surveillance on him before referring the case to CBI."
Investigators said surveillance and tapped phone conversations show Joshi was in touch with Ford Foundation after the US-headquartered NGO was put under the scanner by the home ministry.
According to transcripts of Joshi's conversations, he had called up the Ford Foundation's top management on July 8, 2015, telling the NGO about the government decision before it was officially communicated.
"He also offered to provide minutes of the meeting to the foundation members unofficially and instructed them to collect the same from him," said an investigator.
CBI raids at Joshi's home in the national capital region also led to recovery of files on NGO Care India.
CBI officials said Joshi was trying to move to Canada and had been in touch with a Canadian national.
Joshi, who had earlier worked in the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, had floated three media companies, and his wife Minakshi was a director in all three.
Investigators said these companies were set up to corner government advertisements that Joshi could deliver while working in the I&B ministry.
Joshi, investigators said, had made real estate investments of amounts disproportionate to his known source of income.
Email