In a chat with Et Now , Vikas Khemani, President & CEO, Edelweiss Securities, says whenever an unorganised economy goes into the organised system, a huge opportunity gets created.
Edited excerpts ET Now: It seems to be a good move for the markets today.
The mixed Asian cues did not disappoint and while we have been volatile, the earning season and the monsoon cheer seems to be working on the market right now.
Or is it something else?
Vikas Khemani: I do not know about day to day movement but clearly the mood towards India is positive.
We are seeing the liquidity situation which was very difficult a few months ago has settled down and we are seeing incremental institutional money coming into markets.
So clearly international markets have settled down and domestically things are moving forward.
We have started seeing green shoots on the economy in terms of volume led growth has started to see uptick and in my opinion that is the good one thing one should watch out for.
Growth in volumes are very good proxy to overall pickup in the economy.
So if we see auto volume has gone up, freight rates have gone up, cement volumes have picked up, it also means we are seeing some sort of pick up across the board albeit a very small one and you cannot decide on any direction but green shoots are visible and macro indicators are very positive.
It takes time for macros to pan out and reflect into micros and I do believe that with the lag of a couple of quarters, we will see strong recovery visible in the corporate earnings side.
This is what one should look into.
The most important thing is that liquidity becomes very important from a shorter term perspective but it is very difficult to take a call on how the liquidity is going to be in a short term perspective but by and large, the international environment is fairly stable.
Fed rate hike has kind of been expected to be postponed and the next rise might even be deferred to next year and the next big event, probably on secondary, will come around the Brexit.
The market might get choppy around that but these are all variables which are not in your control.
If I were to take a view on the Indian market , I believe that macros are definitely improving.
Based on my earlier interactions with most of the corporates post election, there were a lot of expectations from the market and there were disappointments but now I see corporates are beginning to kind of talk about positive language and lot of optimism is slowly getting built into their own sort of activity.
So I remain quite positive on the markets.
ET Now: What is extremely unnerving nowadays is the kind of volatility that the market is throwing up at us.
I am not even debating the fact that just when we were counting down to 8000, we went back all the way to 7700 but it is the volatility which is kind of getting to us.
Do you think this is something that we will have to deal with in say the next few months or do you think the volatility could subside eventually?
Vikas Khemani: There will be bouts of volatility.
Because of the very nature of volatility, you cannot find a pattern in it.
Markets are volatile because internationally things were kind of unsettled.
They have settled down now but domestically things are slowly picking up.
If you take a short-term perspective, then it looks like everything is fairly priced.
Why should I buy equity markets and stuff like that but we are in a sort of crossroads right now where you cannot take a short term view and invest into the market.
Answers would be very unclear but if you take medium to longer term view, you will have lots of answers.
But if you are invested into equities , there would be uncertainties, there would be volatility and volatility regime will settle down from what we saw in first few months of the year.
It has settled down no doubt but that might come in for factors which is beyond anybody's imaginations.
Brexit is another big event which is likely to come in June.
We think that it might not happen but who knows?
These are the big events and there might be repercussions in the market at least in the shorter term but once these events are behind us , we all forget and move on.
So ultimately medium to long term what matters is domestic fundamentals are improving.
Are we going to see corporate earnings coming in with a lag?
Timing the market would always be very difficult.
ET Now: The interesting point that you made was that the green shoots are already there and they are getting visible as well.
Maybe one of those is the fact that earnings so far have actually been better than what the street has been actually anticipating and if not many hits, there are not as many misses either.
What has been your assessment of earnings so far?
Vikas Khemani: You cannot look at a broad based overall corporate earnings.
You have to look at pockets and sectors and that is where stock picking comes into the play.
If you look at earnings, private sector banks, wherever they have had limited corporate exposures, earnings growth as well as credit growth has been fairly robust.
That clearly shows that there is a latent demand.
Banks are growing but wherever there are issues around asset quality, banks are kind of coming out of it and resolving the issue.
However, it appears that the worst is kind of behind.
In some of the sectors which are linked to the economic demand like automobiles, cement, the freight rate has sort of hiked.
Freight rates do not go up unless there is latent demand in the economy or there has been some pickup in the economy.
So I think you are seeing those kind of green shoots.
In my opinion, corporate earnings have by and large delivered as per expectations.
Wherever there were issues they will still take some time.
It may not happen immediately but markets have kind of by and large factored that in.
So I am not at all disappointed with the corporate earnings and whatever has come so far.
In fact, I read them more in positive light than negative light and I do not expect too much disappointment from the earnings which are likely to come.
Again, you will have to leave certain sectors -- maybe public sector enterprises, we do not know what is going to be the provisioning and all those things -- but they are all factored into the expectations and the markets.
And all these sectors have to be looked at keeping in mind what is broadly happening on those fronts and how the government and RBI are trying to push the issues to be resolved.
So I am not very disappointed on the corporate earnings front.
ET Now: You were bullish on banking results and save for the usual suspects like ICICI or an Axis, the others have delivered and there is a clear gravity that we see now towards the HDFC twins, a Kotak, maybe a Yes, maybe an IndusInd .
Despite the fact that they are trading at slightly premium valuations, is this a near term verdict or what will happen for the rest of the year?
Quality and private sector banks will continue to attract premium at the cost of the others.
Do you think this will change?
Vikas Khemani: My judgment is based on quality or lack of it and the way to asses this is that banks which were largely focussed on retail lending and banks which did not have significant asset quality baggage to deal with, have continued to grow because they are not carrying any baggage on their balance sheet or on their organisational psyche.
Hence they are able to address the opportunity which either is in some sense vacated or where other banks have less focus they have captured that market share, they have captured the opportunity very well and that is the reason markets are saying that till the time asset quality issue is behind in a significant manner, the banks which are struggling with that, will find it difficult to grow their balance sheet and credit side in a meaningful manner.
That is the reason, the market is moving towards some of the names you mentioned and I think if you are not carrying any baggage, you will put all your energies behind capturing this available opportunity and that is what we are seeing.
Investors like growth, investors like to see if some organisations are capturing the growth very well and what these companies are doing.
Hence you are seeing a kind of divergence at this point in time.
This might change but at least it looks like that next couple of quarters this will continue, the growth will definitely be superior for this set of companies who are not dealing with the baggage of past and once these are done with their dealing with this baggage, they also will grow but it is an interplay between valuation and sort of growth what you are looking at and each investor depending on their risk-reward profile, their investment style, choose where to investment.
We find many investors are also preferring to invest into even some of the banks which are dealing with asset quality issues saying that valuations are factoring in all worst and as and when these organisations come back to capture the growth they will do well.
So it all depends on what kind of investment psychology or investment risk profile you carry.
ET Now: What I meant by quality is that some of these banks are dealing with the asset quality issues where the others are not and they are finding preference.
Let me just extend that point to the NBFC space as well.
Again a pocket which has done extremely well this earning season.
I cannot think of one NBFC which has come out with a disappointing set of numbers.
There could have been an odd disappointment here and there but by and large, it remains extremely robust.
So within the NBFC pocket, which section are you as a house more bullish on because there is housing finance, durable finance and now microfinance is pretty much becoming a sector of its own?
Vikas Khemani: This clearly shows that there is a huge latent demand outside banking segment which the NBFCs are catering to.
These include housing finance, some of the low ticket microfinance, some of the rural financing sort, which includes vehicle and all other categories of finance.
These NBFCs are catering to fairly large segment of the economic demand for credit.
The last couple of years we have been seeing a great amount of stress on the rural focused NBFCs and post monsoon.
Post announcements of a favourable monsoon forecast, some of the worries have started receding.
The worst is probably behind for them and the kind of NPAs of these specifically focused NBFCs are higher than 10 per cent and that is going to get receded from here on.
But we have been constantly positive on this entire segment, and specifically on housing finance.
We think housing finance is a structurally long-term sustainable growth kind of story and this is relatively safe from a risk profile perspective because NBFCs borrow in wholesale market and when you are borrowing wholesale money, I personally look for a lot more stability on the risk profile of the assets and housing finance falls into that category.
So a growth of 20-25 per cent is possible on the housing side and there is a need and demand for lots of companies available in that space.
So we remain very positive on that space.
Other than that, we are convinced about business model of some of the urban focused NBFCs, some of the rural focused NBFCs and microfinance.
By the way, microfinance also is necessary for meeting the unmet need of a particular segment of society.
There is a huge latent demand and these companies by being available have been able to meet those demands and they are putting the unorganised economy into an organised system.
Whenever an unorganised economy goes into the organised system, a huge opportunity gets created.
I see big opportunities where the private lenders are getting out of the business and institutional frameworks are getting created for lending to that segment of the society which is socially very positive so I see this will continue to remain as big segment.
RBI has given lot of licences and this will become fairly large big over next 5-10 years.