Every dip is looking like a great opportunity to create long position. A trend reversal is likely to take place only when Nifty50 breaks below 7,780.
NEW DELHI: The Nifty50 staged an impressive bounceback on Thursday to close above its crucial resistance level of 7,900, thus forming a 'Spinning Top' kind of pattern on the daily candlestick charts.A spinning top pattern is formed when the real body is small but it has distinctive upper as well as lower shadows, which suggest a wide range of price movements through the trading session.
This candle is often seen as a neutral pattern and should be studied with other indicators as well as patterns on the daily charts.
On an intraday chart, Nifty50 formed an inverse head & shoulder pattern, which is a bullish signal.
The bulls managed to push the index above its crucial resistance level of 7,900, which suggests the market is gearing up for a breakout, which could take the index towards its next crucial level at 8,000, analysts said.
The Nifty50 opened at 7,871.45 and slipped to an intraday low of 7,849.65 which made the long lower shadow.
It then gained momentum in the afternoon session and rose to its intraday high of 7,916.05.
"A small bullish candle visible on the daily charts looks like a spinning top, which is indecisive in nature," Mazhar Mohammad, Chief Strategist - Technical Research & Trading Advisory, Chartviewindia.in, told ETMarkets.com.
The intraday behaviour and Nifty's remarkable recovery from lower levels every time it is sold off in the last two trading sessions clearly suggest that this market is more likely to take off its critical resistance placed around 7,900 level instead of breaching the 7,800 mark on the downside.
"The index has the ability to move up beyond the 8,000-8100 levels.
On a lower time frame, the recent selloff from the 7,890 level registered on May 3 chalked out a bullish pattern, called inverse head and shoulders," he pointed out.
Mohammad said if the market sustains the breakout above the 7,900 level, this pattern will open up a new target of around 8,112.
Hence, every dip is looking like a great opportunity to create long positions.
On the other hand, a trend reversal on the downside is likely to take place only when Nifty50 breaks below the 7,780 level.
The market seems to have managed to absorb the initial shock, when it opened for trading on Thursday.
But the way market has managed to recoup the losses shows that a bigger breakout is in the offing.
"The recent accumulation pattern just below the level of 8,000 is likely to enhance the probability of market moving above the 8000 mark and go beyond thereafter," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd told ETMarkets.com.
"The medium-term technical parameters show strength despite the recent volatility and continue to give an indication that there is a higher probability of positive movement going ahead," he said.
Gadia said any move above the 8,000 mark can trap the bearish trader, who remains active above the 7,900 mark over past a couple of days.
This can fuel the upside momentum by covering their shorts.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email