By ET Now | 10 May, 2016, 10.51AM IST
In a chat witH ET Now , Pankaj Sharma, Executive Director, Equirus Securities, says stock specific reasons could vary depending on who is entering and who is not entering in terms of institutional buyers but I think fundamentally things are in a much better shape.
Edited excerpts ET Now: We are talking real estate and frankly there is not a single day in the last seven or eight that I have not discussed Indiabulls Real Estate but that just brings to fore the point that there is a lot of activity in these companies.
Is there merit in making an investment into any of these real estate companies because of a lot of fundamental factors, let along the sentiment?
Pankaj Sharma: No.
If you look at the fundamental factors for real estate, I think they have got considerably better.
Two important data points I would like to highlight: if you look at last six months in terms of the buyer sentiment, there is a lot of move towards buying from end users and developers across tier-1 cities.
At least top six-seven cities have started focussing more on the end users and that is a very good sign because typically when you have more investors, it leads to more speculation.
Also, if you look at the sentiment on what happens on the final affordability, the economy is not very buoyant in terms what happens on the salary levels of people, but the interest rates are coming down and definitely even with a 6-8 per cent salary hikes, real estate is becoming more and more affordable.
So when the prices are stabilising, there are more end users who are entering.
Overall, if you look at even on the commercial side, the yields are very attractive.
So if somebody is looking at these sectors today, I do not think that the sentiment is as bad as it was six months back.
So definitely there has been an improvement.
Of course, stock specific reasons could vary depending on who is entering and who is not entering in terms of institutional buyers but I think fundamentally things are in a much better shape versus where they were six months back.
ET Now: What is your understanding of Arvind?
I think, in the short term there is a bit of a euphoria.
The company is not going anywhere because they still dependent on the denim business which is a low margin and high turnover business and which is more like a commodity business the share of Arvind is changing, it will change surely but that will take two-three years.
Pankaj Sharma: Of course, all these initiatives are great but when you look at how much money you make on them and how long it will take, it is very difficult to see a very sustainable profitable model and of course you do not have a choice like if you are in a business which can be commoditised, if you want, you can do better in terms of your brand presence, entering into categories which are seeing less competition.
But overall, it will be a long haul.
You are not really going to see anything immediately in terms of getting better profitability and ratios getting better.
So probably on a three years perspective or three years plus view, this is a interesting stock but near term I would probably be bit cautious because all these improvements are going to take time.
Nothing much is going to change on that very very soon and immediately so I would probably be interested in it on a three years plus view but not really on a near term basis or immediately.
ET Now: Is it worth buying an HUL which is showing a volume growth of 3-4 per cent?
The management commentary is not guiding for a 6-7 per cent volume growth and the stock is trading at 42 times.
For somebody who is holding on to HUL and wants to stick to FMCG, is it better to shift to may be a Emami, may be a Marico, maybe a Dabur?
Pankaj Sharma: That is very interesting, if you look at the last 12-18 months, most of the times when we discussed Patanjali, the potential impact has always been highlighted.
It could be the maximum for guys like Dabur and Emami because the product portfolio is somewhat similar.
But what we are seeing today is very different.
the maximum impact on volume growth that is coming in the FMCG space, on guys like Hindustan Unilever or maybe even Colgate is slightly different.
If you look at tier-3 and tier-4 cities and even tier-2 cities, I would think that in most cases, Patanjali's competition is not just with these guys alone.
There are a lot of people in these segments.
When you talk about Patanjali, there could be a direct competition with something like Vicco, there could be a direct competition with some of the local players, some of the unorganised sector brands which are very focussed in, let us say, six to eight districts and are a very localised phenomenon.
So I would think that at this price, it is definitely much more sensible to look at something which is much cheaper and the volume growth is slightly better.
So definitely, I would agree with you that compared to Levers, I would be more keen to look at an Emami or a Dabur and even Marico.
But at this level, there is only about at 10 per cent kind of a difference in valuation and I would probably be more keen on Levers in that comparison.
But in absolute terms in the entire space, definitely I would be more interested in something like Emami or a Dabur.
ET Now: Surprised to see that JSW Energy is a stock that you like.
Why do you like it?
Pankaj Sharma: I think that is something which is probably attracting a lot of interest and questions.
If you look at whatever they have been doing in the last 12-18 months, as far as their acquisition strategy is concerned, I think it is very sensible.
They are looking at plants which are fundamentally excellent and they are not really paying anything more than what they should be paying.
So if you look at the recent one, the acquisition of 1000 megawatt plant of Jindal Steel and Power , it is a phenomenal asset.
If you look at the operating history, if you look at the machines, everything is world class and if you look at the price which they are paying for this 1000 megawatt plant of JSPL, it is very attractive.
So I believe that this is a company which is going to be very strongly placed in the next two to three years when the demand would come back and we would see more generation and slight improvement in tariff rates also,.
So I think overall, it is adding up assets, it is building a very good portfolio and they are probably bringing in more balance between their raw material sources, their PPAs and that is something which we like a lot.
Also, if you look at even after all these acquisitions, the debt equity is very comfortable.
It is not in a zone where you would really start getting worried about what happens with the debt servicing and what happens on the cash flow part.
So overall, I think it is a stock where there is a lot of opportunity in the next 12-18 months to do well and fundamentally if the rates are going to get better, if there is increased demand, JSW Energy is going to be one very strong beneficiary of that trend.
ET Now: A quick view on Exide , what is the thought here?
Pankaj Sharma: This is again very interesting.
In the last five to six years, this company has lost out a lot to the competitors both in terms of the perception about the product and the distribution.
They are slowly getting it right.
So if you look at their investment in the technology they are very aggressive.
Also in terms of their presence as far as the distribution is concerned, SKUs, geographical distribution, everything that they are doing, is making them more aggressive in the market .
So I believe that it is a company which is going to be a very strong competitor in the entire space and that is why I like the stock.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email