ETMarkets.com: After a gap-down opening, the Nifty50 witnessed wild swings in Wednesday's trade but managed to close just below its crucial psychological support at 7,850 level.The wild swings resulted in a 'high wave' kind of pattern on the daily candlestick charts.
A 'high wave' pattern is formed when the candle has a very small real body and large movement on either side, which signifies uncertainty.
In a 'high wave' pattern, the shadows are longer and signal doubt and confusion in the market.
Wednesday's pattern is not a perfect 'high wave' but it still suggested uncertainty.
Ideally, 'high wave' candles have long shadows on both sides, but a huge gap-down opening and subsequent recovery from the day's low of 7,780 level minimised the lower shadow.
Since this kind of a selloff is not warranted by the charts and it was influenced by external factors, it can at best be described as a panic selloff, experts said.
It looks like the market is positioning itself for a breakout above the 8,000 level and traders should use every dip to buy into this market.
The market came under pressure after the Indian government made amendments to the double tax avoidance arrangement with Mauritius, prompting analysts to speculate that it could push some of the FII money out of domestic equity.
"It was heartening to see the second intraday dip getting bought into by market participants, as Nifty50 rebounded after testing its 200-day exponential moving average placed around the 7,778 level.
On the candlestick charts, this large swing can at best be described as a 'high wave' candle suggesting a wildly volatile day," Mazhar Mohammad, Chief Strategist - Technical Research & Trading Advisory, Chartviewindia.in, told ETMarkets.com
"Going forward, it will be critical for Nifty50 to sustain above the day's panic low of 7,780.
Should Nifty50 slip below this level, the bears shall tighten their grip once again.
On the other hand, the bulls shall be jubilant enough once again if they manage to conquer the 7,900 level on a closing basis," he said.
The index made a spinning top candle on Tuesday and followup selling on Wednesday indicated that the bears are putting sustained pressure at higher levels.
The index managed to bounce back from its crucial support levels, which meant that the bulls are not in a mood to loosen their grip.
It looks like the market is on the verge of a major breakout above the 8,000 level.
The way the market recovered from its intraday low around the key support of 7,800 showed that some strength is left in this market.
"The market is positioning itself for a breakout above the recent trading range of 7,800-8,000, which can happen in a couple of sessions," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research, told ETMarkets.com.
"For that to happen, it is important to hold the support at 7,800 level.
The medium-term technical parameters are not supposed to change with one-day volatility and those still flashing a positive view," he said.
Gadia said those who have still not managed to enter the market in its recent rally are advised to wait for a breakout above the 8000 mark.
"Alternatively, if the market breaches below the 7,800 level, one should look for buying opportunity around the 7,700-7,750 levels," Gadia explained.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email