By PTI | 11 May, 2016, 06.50PM IST
AAP leader Ashutosh said why is it that the mark sheets of other students released during the same time, name and subjects of the applicants are hand written, but in the mark sheet of Modi released by BJP, name and subjects of the applicant are not handwritten.
NEW DELHI: Continuing its attack over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's educational qualification issue, the AAP today targeted Delhi University officials for authenticating "fake mark sheet" and raised fresh doubts over discrepancies in it.
Posing questions to DU Registrar Tarun Das, AAP leader Ashutosh said why is it that the mark sheets of other students released during the same time, name and subjects of the applicants are hand written, but in the mark sheet of Modi released by BJP, name and subjects of the applicant are not handwritten.
"In mark sheets available with us the marks obtained by the students are handwritten, whereas in the mark sheet of Mr Modi the marks are not handwritten.
Why?
In mark sheets available with us the word 'Passed' is handwritten.
Why the word 'passed' is not handwritten in Mr Modi's marksheet?"
AAP leader Ashutosh said.
He said the mark sheets available with them also have signatures of the competent authorities under the heads, 'Checked By' and 'Prepared By', but Modi's mark sheet has been signed off only under the head 'Checked by' and why the signatures under the head 'Prepared by' is missing in his marks sheet?
"In the mark sheets of Mr Modi for all the years 1975, 1976, 1977 and 1978 a digit 2366 is written by hand at the top right corner.
How this digit is written in all the mark sheets in same handwriting.
This is a clinching evidence that the mark sheet has been forged.
"In the mark sheets available with us 'University of Delhi' is written in simple font, whereas, in Modi ji's mark sheet 'University of Delhi' is written in modern font.
How it is possible?
"Modi ji's mark sheet appears to be computer generated.
Did the Delhi University have computers in 1975?
Modern fonts have been used in Modi ji's mark sheet.
Were these fonts available in 1975?
Did Bill Gates send a special computer at that time to print Modi's degrees?"
Ashutosh added.
The party said the varsity were "under the pressure" from the Centre as they were worried about "saving their job".
"When we went to the university yesterday, no one met us.
But the Registrar gave an interview to a channel saying the degree is authentic.
"You all are aware what happened in Gujarat and its model.
Whoever goes against Modi is targeted.
In Gujarat 36 IPS officers were behind bars," Ashutosh said.
The party parried questions on what would be their next plan of action.
"We are not naive players in the game.
First let us get the varsity comply with the Chief Information Commissioner's (CIC) order, but we will take the case to a logical conclusion," AAP leader Sanjay Singh said.
Email