By ET Bureau | 12 May, 2016, 05.14AM IST
MUMBAI: Stocks fell on Wednesday after the government armed itself with powers to tax capital gains on transactions by Mauritius-based firms but losses were capped as offshore fund sales were offset by local fund buys.
A majority of market participants said that the change in Mauritius treaty will have a minimal impact on the market and investors are looking for other triggers like interest rate moves by the US Federal Reserve, monsoon and corporate results.
"I don't think the Mauritius tax treaty will have any material impact on the markets," said Gopal Agrawal, CIO, Mirae Asset Management.
"The market will now look at how the US Fed rate hike and monsoon developments pan out, which is very crucial.
Political developments will also be an important factor for the markets as FIIs are betting big on some tax reforms in India".
The BSE Sensex slipped 176 points, or 0.68%, to 25,597 while Nifty declined 0.5% or 39 point to end at 7848.85.
In early trade, markets reacted negatively to the news of change in India-Mauritius tax treaty and the Sensex declined as much as 363 points.
Surprisingly, it made equally strong comeback and completely pared losses in the first-half itself, but selling pressure remerged at higher level which again pushed the markets lower by the end.
Stocks of public sector banks, telecom firms and index heavyweights ITC, HDFC, Infosys and Reliance Industries led losses as the two key benchmark indices snapped a two-day winning streak.
With the exception of media and private banks, all other sectoral indices on the NSE traded in the red, with PSU banks, healthcare and IT stocks bearing the maximum brunt.
The BSE Midcap index gained 18 points.
"It was a red day on the bourses as domestic markets were weighed down by concerns over future equity inflows into India in the aftermath of the amendments to the bilateral India-Mauritius tax treaty," said Shreyash Devalkar, fund manager - equities, BNP Paribas Mutual Fund.
Foreign institutional investors sold equities worth `362 crore, while domestic institutions bought stocks worth Rs 730 crore on Wednesday, according to BSE provisional numbers.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email