Busy Bee Modi may meet spelling whizkids in USWhile the plan is yet to be fully firmed up, people aware of the details said such a meeting was likely to figure in the itinerary.
While the plan is yet to be fully firmed up, people aware of the details said such a meeting was likely to figure in the itinerary.
NEW DELHI: Scherenschnitte and nunatak are not the sort of words used in everyday conversation.
But Vanya Shivashankar and Gokul Venkatachalam got them right, making them joint winners of last year's Scripps National Spelling Bee, an event that Indian Americans have dominated in the last decade or so.
That's why Narendra Modi's visit to the US next month — this will be his fourth to that country since becoming Prime Minister in May 2014 —could include a meet-and-greet with winners of the National Spelling Bee that's to be held at the end of this month in Washington DC.
While the plan is yet to be fully firmed up, people aware of the details said such a meeting was likely to figure in the itinerary.
Modi may even forego his usual stadium-style address, suggested the people cited above.
The PM is expected to visit the US on June 6-8 but the White House is yet to formally announce it.
This spelling bee engagement is being regarded as a unique outreach programme by the Prime Minister, who will have several key political and business appointments during his trip, including a meeting with President Barack Obama.
The appointments will also include an address to a joint session of the US Congress, interactions with global CEOs and a meeting of the US India Business Council as he projects the country as an investment destination.
Diaspora outreach is a key element of Modi's foreign policy goals, having kicked this off with his address to the community in New York's Madison Square Garden in September 2014.
Fifteen of the last 19 winners (1999 to 2015), including all champions for the most recent eight years (2008-2015), have been Indian Americans.
The years 2014 and 2015 saw two co-winners each.
The Scripps National Spelling Bee is held annually in the Washington DC area over a two-day period at the end of May or beginning of June.
This year, 285 contestants will compete for the title.
Preliminaries will be held on May 24 and the finals on May 26.
Contest participants cannot be older than 14 as of August 31of the year before the competition, nor can they be past the eighth grade as of February 1 of that years' competition.
Previous winners are also ineligible to compete.
Email