Christian Michel has told TV news channels that he was not even in India when specifications for the VVIP chopper were changed.
NEW DELHI: Christian Michel , the British middleman sought by CBI and ED in the AgustaWestland deal, may have told various news outlets that he had no role to play in swinging the decision, but investigators are thoroughly unimpressed.Michel has told TV news channels that he was not even in India when specifications for the VVIP chopper were changed.
But investigators say Michel is being disingenuous — he wasn't being probed for changing the specifications.
Senior officials of CBI and ED told ET that their focus was on Michel's activities post-2005, especially his role in "swinging" the deal in Agusta's favour with maximum benefit for the Italian company.
This was the period which saw the deal size jump — from Rs 728 crore to Rs 3,546 crore.
Agencies say they are investigating Michel for "fixing" the deal "by using his Indian contacts".
Taking a lead from Italian investigations, CBI believes that Michel got the largest share of what is being called the total "bribe money" for the Agusta deal — Rs 200 crore of the Rs 330 crore, according to papers seized from Finmeccanica , the Italian company running Agusta.
What happened to this amount and where it was disbursed are the key questions for CBI.
Much of this money is suspected to have been spent between 2005 and 2010 when the deal was finally awarded to AgustaWestland.
Agencies say after questioning Michel's associates in India, they are "reasonably convinced" that the British agent "took the lead from 2006 onwards and brought everyone together".
In the earlier, pre-2006 period, the key role, investigators say, was played by Delhi-based lawyer Gautam Khaitan.
This was when specifications of the VVIP chopper were altered, allegedly to favour Agusta.
Khaitan, who was questioned by CBI on Wednesday, was allegedly responsible for setting up companies on behalf of Italian middlemen Guido Hashke and Carlo Gerosa.
According to ED's probe, 'dummy' companies were set up by Michel in India in 2005, which started receiving funds in 2006.
Documents also show that his associates — RK Nanda and JB Subramaniam — were directors in these companies.
Agencies want to question Michel on these transactions.
There's an Interpol red corner notice against Michel.
The government has so far rejected his proposition on offering him a plea bargain.
Investigators say Michel and his associates invested in real estate in Delhi and bought three properties, including a farmhouse in Chhattarpur, in the name of front company Media Exim Pvt Ltd. Michel, with the help of Nanda, sold two of the three properties in 2011-12.
The money was transferred to Michel's Dubai-based firm Global Finance FZE by Nanda, CBI officers say.
The third property, a flat in Delh's posh Safdarjung Enclave, was attached by ED last year.
Investigations so far show Michel served as a director in 10 companies at various points and these firms had lawyers, tax consultants and retired defence personnel as board members.
CBI investigators told ET that they are also examining Michel's deal on behalf of Agusta on supplying spare parts for Indian Navy choppers as well as a post-contract services agreement.
According to Italian prosecutors, who accessed the contract dated March 1, 2010, Michel was to assist the company in media management.
He was tasked with giving Agusta a feedback on Indian media activity, specifically to "inform the company of any hostile press activity that may impact on the execution of the contract".
Email