NEW DELHI: After sinking as much as 15 per cent in the selloff seen in the first two months of the year, midcap stocks have made a strong comeback over the past two months.In Wednesday's session, the BSE Midcap index, a performance barometer for midcap stocks listed on the BSE, recovered all the losses of 2016 in April on renewed buying by domestic institutional investors (DII).
Since the Budget Day, the Midcap index has surged 16.5 per cent in value terms, outpacing a 10 per cent rally on its largecap peer, BSE Sensex.
After selling equities worth Rs 15,740 crore in March for the first time in 23 months, MF inflows made a comeback in April and May, as these DIIs bought stocks worth Rs 1,773 crore.
Midcap-oriented mutual funds have consistently outperformed their largecap peers in the past three years.
Midcap equity funds have gained as much as 34 per cent during the period whereas largecap equity funds notched up around 18 per cent.
Anlaysts bullish on prospects ahead Most Dalal Street experts remained bullish even when the midcap stocks went through heavy correction all through January, February.
"In the midcap space, we see scope for further upsides, as growth in the economy and, more specifically, higher consumption and infrastructure investment drive revenue growth," said Ravi Shenoy, VP- Midcap Research, Motilal Oswal Securities (MOSL).
"We expect operating leverage to aid a 20 per cent-plus expansion in annualised Ebitda growth in a number of mid-cap companies on account of excess capacity.
This should be accompanied by lower interest outgo on cheaper cost of debt," he said.
India's story is midcap story and experts believe investors focused on the domestic economy should look at this space for better returns.
Arun Gopalan, Senior VP at Systematix Shares & Stocks, believes valuations of midcap stocks are still very high compared with their largecap peers, yet the long-term story lies with them.
"Currently finding value among the midcaps is a tedious task, but value is there.
Given the expected nature of GDP growth in India, the contribution of smaller companies should become significant.
Clearly, that is where the long-term action is," he said.
Finding value in the chaos The midcap space can be a chaotic place to find value as a number of companies command bloated valuations despite weak fundamentals.
Arun Gopalan believes the automobiles, consumer finance and cement segments are probably where investors can focus on.
"The automobiles, consumer finance, microfinance and cement segments are looking good in a selective way.
With expectations of a good monsoon, the rural and agricultural sectors look good too," he said.
For Ravi Shenoy, NBFCs, home renovation and consumption sectors are the themes to look out for.
"Among various segments in the mid-cap space, we like NBFCs (as they stand to gain more from lower interest rates ), home renovation-related names and the consumption theme," he said.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email