May consider taking more steps to ease problem of call drops: PrasadPrasad said his ministry may consider taking more steps to ease the problem of call drops, adding that AT&amp;T and Virgin Mobile have already shown interest in the policy on virtual network operators.
Prasad said his ministry may consider taking more steps to ease the problem of call drops, adding that AT&T and Virgin Mobile have already shown interest in the policy on virtual network operators.
Communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has said that under his almost two-year watch, India's postal department has been reinventing itself as a payments bank and a leading logistics provider for the growing ecommerce sector, while the laying of optic fibre network across India has been speeded up.
In an interview to ET, Prasad said his ministry may consider taking more steps to ease the problem of call drops, adding that AT&T and Virgin Mobile have already shown interest in the policy on virtual network operators, which will be unveiled shortly.
Edited excerpts: After the SC's ruling against the Trai call drop regulation, what will be the government's next step?
Will it take any regulatory initiatives to impose penalty on telcos?
We are going through the judgment at this point.
I can only say that if we feel we need to take any initiative on our part, we will take it.
Are you looking to make any amendments to the Trai Act ?
No comments.
What will you like to say to telecom operators?
They must continue to resolve the issue of call drops and consumers must be their priority.
We will provide them support in whichever form we can, as we have done in the past.
Besides the quality of services, what is your focus as the communications and IT minister?
I'm creating five platforms for digital infrastructure — optical fibre network, rural post offices, common service centres, call centres and rural BPOs, and VNO (virtual network operator).
What I am excited about is that India's digital story is clicking with the world.
The optic fibre network has suffered severe delays.
Can you give the latest updates on its progress?
NOFN (National Optic Fibre Network) came in 2011- now we are in 2016.
In June 2014, optical fibre pipe was laid for 2,292 km and fibre exactly laid across 458 km.
As on May 2, optical fibre pipe has been laid in 1,39,582 km and optical fibre in 1,11,762 km.
Yet, I am scaling it up.
Can you share some details on modernisation of postal services?
I started insisting on the modernisation and digitisation of post offices the moment I joined this office.
When I became the minister, the number of post offices covered by core banking was just 230.
In about three years, it is now 21,319.
There were just four ATMs in June 2014 and now it is 910.
Now, what we are going to do is give a handheld device to all postmen.
Currently, the handheld devices have been supplied to 4,700 rural post offices in six pilot circles.
1,30,000 shall be delivered by March 2017, the tender for which has been given.
The digital linkage is being substantially done.
Ecommerce is turning out to be a big revenue generator for the postal department.
Can you share some figures with us?
Before ecommerce could leverage on the postal network, I had to the change efficiencies of the postal department and the first thing I worked on was Speed Post.
Today, there is a 12% rise in the revenue.
Remember, delivery is very important.
We established 57 state-of-the-art delivery centres in the country.
Parcel revenue, which was down in 2013-14, rose by 40% in 2014-15 and jumped 80% in 2015-16.
More than 60% of the ecommerce business is from small, semi-rural towns and a village in Aizawl is topping the list...Today, the postal department is reclaiming its relevance.
People prefer postal because private operators insist on aminimum quantity of shipment.
The postal department has become the leader in ecommerce delivery because of its logistics.
How many ecommerce players are you servicing?
Some 400 ecommerce players, including Amazon , Flipkart and Snapdeal .
What is you strategy on payments bank permit which the postal department has received?
This is going to be a game-changer.
It would energise financial inclusion.
Our assessment is that around 2.2 crore customers will be added to payment branches in the next two years.
National and international bodies are keen to join us.
All banks of India, all insurance companies minus LIC and all mutual funds.
Templeton, World Bank, Citibank, Barclays are the international players who have evinced keen interest for a tie-up, primarily because of third-party delivery.
They will be doing their own business and third-party delivery will bring handsome commissions for us.
All direct benefit transfers, social security schemes, payment of bills, telephones and so on will also become seamless once India Post starts functioning as a payments bank, which will be launched by March 2017.
When do we expect the policy on virtual network operators?
Have any international players shown interest?
The guidelines will be out shortly.
You don't need to hold a network yourself and some of the biggest companies of the world have shown interest, including AT&T and Virgin.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow ET Opinion on Twitter
Email