While his role in this episode is well-known, what is lesser known is the fact that the former Jamaat leader was also an Achilles Heel for India.
NEW DELHI: Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) chief Ameer Motiur Rehman Nizami's execution after a lengthy six-year-trial brings an end to the gory chapter of genocide and persecution of then East Pakistanis in 1971.
While his role in this episode is well-known, what is lesser known is the fact that the former Jamaat leader was also an Achilles Heel for India from encouraging extremist groups to assisting insurgents of India's once restive Northeast to allegedly maintaining links with Dawood Ibrahim.
Nizami's links with Pakistan, on whose behalf he carried out the killings in 1971, was intact till he was hanged in the wee hours of Wednesday.
Islamabad tried to safeguard him till last Monday further denting ties with Dhaka.
According to political and government sources in Dhaka, Pakistan infamous spy agency ISI became active in Bangladesh when Nizami held agriculture and industry portfolios between 2001-06 under the Khaleda Zia government.
In 2004, when Nizami was the industry minister, ten trucks of arms were tried to be smuggled through a jetty in Chittagong.
The jetty was under the supervision of the industries ministry.
The consignment that was seized had huge cache of arms meant for insurgent groups in India's Northeast whose leaders were operating out of Bangladesh at that point of time with the Zia regime providing logistics support to them.
Later in 2014 both Nizami and former MoS Home Lutfozzaman Babar were sentenced to death in this sensational ten trucks arms case.
JeI that has been banned by the Hasina government financially gained muscle since Nizami became its chief in 2001.
JeI runs Islamic Bank that has deep pockets with funds received from abroad.
Bangladesh civil society accuses JeI of amassing huge wealth to spread extremist ideology and funding extremist groups in the country.
According to Abul Barkat, a professor of Economis at Dhaka University, Jamaat has created a "state within state" and an "economy within economy".
It earns an annual profit of $278 million from different business ventures it runs in the country.
Ten per cent of this goes to sustain Jamaat and fund other militant religious outfits.
Nizami went to exile after Mujibur Rahman became Bangladesh PM only to return in 1978 when Gen Zia-ur-Rahman was the President of the country.
Email