 
By Prabha Raghavan, ET Bureau | 13 May, 2016, 03.15AM IST
NEW DELHI: Pharmaceutical companies Wockhardt and Alembic have challenged in the Delhi High Court the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority's recent moves related to fixation and revision of prices of medicines.
This comes closely after the Mumbai High Court granted an interim order to members of two pharma lobby groups opposing the drug pricing watchdog for the same reason.
NPPA had recently cut prices of essential medicines already sold lower than their ceiling price and prevented companies from raising the prices of drugs recently removed from the National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM).
Wockhardt and Alembic filed separate petitions against the NPPA over the moves on May 9, according to the Delhi High Court website.
NPPA, meanwhile, continues to uphold its decisions, saying they are correct as per law and uphold consumer interest.
According to a lawyer representing one of the companies, there are no provisions in the Drugs Price Control Order (DPCO) that allow NPPA to enforce notifications dated March 2 and 29.
The notifications state that manufacturers with scheduled formulations having a maximum retail price (MRP) lower than the revised ceiling price shall make corresponding reductions in their MRP according to the annual wholesale price index (WPI).
While NPPA's notifications mention that the decision is as per the provision of paragraph 16(4) of DPCO, the lawyer said: "According to the DPCO, (the company) is only obligated to maintain the existing price".
"NPPA does not see any flaw in the notification, which is as per the letter and the spirit of DPCO 2013 and in consumer interest.
We will contest the case in the court," NPPA Chairman Bhupendra Singh earlier told ET.
The companies have also contested NPPA's April 6 memorandum, which clarifies that the ceiling price notified on March 2 "shall be kept frozen and maintained as MRP for 12 months" even for drugs that were subsequently removed from the NLEM in a March 10 notification.
According to the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA), which is locked in a court battle in Mumbai over the notifications and memorandum, the body "has not followed the rule of law" in these instances.
Wockhardt and Alembic did not respond to queries sent by ET by the time this story went to press.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email