By ET Now | 9 May, 2016, 10.30AM IST
In a chat witH ET Now, Harendar Kumar, MD-Instl Equiites, Elara Capital, explains that already there are green shoots in some smaller FMCG names.
This trend is going to become much stronger with good monsoon and a lot of cheap credit that is flowing into rural areas.
Edited excerpts ET Now: Cannot help but talk about how stocks are reacting to results or otherwise or to news flows.
Last week has been all about result reactions.
We have seen Adani Ports and HCL Tech go down quite substantially, there was quite a bit of traction in large cap financials as well like HDFC, for example, what stood out, let us start with HDFC, what does the big boy do from here on?
Harendar Kumar : If you look at it, the market was pretty much pricing in a lot of optimism for some of the largecap names.
So wherever the street got a sense that the outlook over the next three to four quarters is not as bright as what they have been pricing in, they punished the stocks extremely hard.
What happened in this quarter is that some of the numbers have surprised the street on the positive side and they also have been rewarded handsomely.
If you look at Emami or some of the FMCG names and some of the private banks have been doing extremely well.
So if you want to link this to the macro turnaround, that is clearly visible on ground and some of the commentary that has been coming up from these companies that the outlook has turned positive and they are looking for better numbers, have been rewarded.
Where obviously the commentary and the actual numbers are in dissonance, they have been punished.
So for all NBFCs and certain private banks, the commentary has been extremely positive and that is what is getting reflected.
One has to remember that these numbers are pricing in optimism of tomorrow.
We believe that the earnings cycle will resume very strongly and the sell side will be behind the curve whereas some of the buy side people would be trying to price that in quickly as of now.
So this trend is what you will witness in some of the select private names and NBFC stocks.
ET Now: What is your opinion on Thyrocare listing?Harendar Kumar: We do not have coverage on the stock but of course businesses are good.
Typically, the allocation on the traditional pharma names are very-very low so investors are looking more opportunities there.
But clearly there is a value for a business and a franchise and if it lists an extremely high level then the probability that that it could go into consolidation and the stock level for the next three to four years will be very high.
So I for one, typically if it lists at a huge premium, would like to take profits which typically in retail investors parlance is first day first show.
And I think that would be a proper approach for the retail investors.
Institutions, of course will potentially want to wait longer to see how the business traction plays on but that is pretty much between the wholesale and institutional and retail guys.
ET Now: The other big earning to day is Unilever.
Do you think Unilever will shine or will it be lacklustre compared to the more rural focused FMCGs?
Harendar Kumar: The urban recovery has been very strong so far this year.We are anticipating a 6 per cent of volume growth and close to 13% of EBITDA margin which will come from raw material gains.
But the story of HUL is not on a q-o-q basis.
So much of stimulous is going to the rural areas that a recovery is already under way.
The largest default play is HUL.
If the market is going to double in 5-6 years, HUL is going to do sligjtly better than that.
At that level, it becomes very attractive for FIIs.
The stock was doing 13 per cent volume growth 6-7 years aho, it fell to 5 per cent, and its on the recovery path now.
Already you are seeing greenshoots in some smaller FMCG names.
This trend is going to become much stronger with good monsoon and a lot of cheap credit that is flowing into rural areas.
So our view will be to stay long in FMCGs including HUL.
ET Now:What has been your reading on how the earnings have panned out so far and any two of the big hits that have stood out for you as a house?
Harendar Kumar: The earnings have been actually quite positive and my guess is that the earnings surprises to the downgrades have been on the higher side which is what is helping the market to hold up.
The sectors that have been coming up are pretty much where the structural positioning has been for us -- which is consumer staples and cyclicals which we saw in the autos .
Telecom has also been reporting very good numbers.
So I think in this context, the numbers are very robust after eight-nine quarters of disappointment and obviously this will bring in a level of anticipation after the monsoons as well.
So I think the markets will read into that and behave accordingly.
One of the names that you just mentioned is Raymond Ltd .
I think that is a stock which held a lot of promise and had failed to deliver over a period of time but over the last two quarters, they have been demonstrating good growth and the numbers have surprised to the positive.
So all the strategic changes that the management is doing are actually bearing fruit.
I think with increased urbanisation and brand plays getting strength this is one stock which is mispriced vis-a-vis other brands.
ET Now: The oil related stories sprung up in Friday's trading session.
I just want to draw your attention to what you would do now with the entire oil pack -- bet on an IGL , GAIL or for that matter Oil India or is it still an avoid purely because of their susceptibility and the correlation of some of them to how crude prices actually pan out which in themselves are so volatile?
Harendar Kumar: If you look at the whole oil pack, the trade that currently on is that a rally in crude is underway given the dollar weakening and the general overall play on emerging markets as well as the commodities .
So in that, typically you would want to look at ONGC as one of the plays which has a negligible subsidy burden and which is enjoying a bounce in crude oil prices.
There is a natural corollary to that; you would want to cut your positions in the OMC pack given that the marketing margins have been flat and in a rising crude scenario, they generally tend to under deliver on their numbers.
Gas remains a structural story from here on, currently they are a little overvalued because they have been re-priced quite aggressively over the last six to eight-seven months but as on corrections, gas stocks continue to remain buys and that is pretty much our stance on the oil and gas pack.
ET Now: Just looking at the strength in HDFC twins and a Kotak seems to suggest that there is a pull towards the high quality financial names even if they are expensive and even if some of the others are very cheap, I mean, ICICI Bank is probably trading, not at the cheapest valuations but almost at the lower end, so also with some of the others, why is this happening?
Harendar Kumar: If you look at the quarterly numbers you will see that the commentary is indicating towards a revival of credit growth and especially on the MSME space as well and the retail book has shown a lot of traction so in that space the sense that the market is getting with the private banks are going to out there and take more market share from the PSU banks.
So the space is on, say an HDFC Bank , IndusInd and the Yes Bank and clearly on the NBFC side which are the beneficiaries of microfinance , their unique positioning in their market segment.
Clearly the guys were left out when the PSUs were grappling with their NPA issues.
So the markets have lapped on to these pillars of optimism and they are re-pricing them upwards.
I think this trend will continue over the next months before they tend to become a little expensive but till then, we would suggest a long on both, private banks and NBFCs.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email