About 11,409 tonnes of octopus were caught on Indian shores in 2015-16, a 93% increase from a year ago, data from the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute shows.
KOCHI: The eight-armed underwater wonders that landed in record numbers in Indian fishing nets were not kosher in the West this time, it seems.
About 11,409 tonnes of octopus were caught on Indian shores in 2015-16, a 93% increase from a year ago, data from the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute ( CMFRI ) shows, but the country could not gain from the enormous catch due to sluggish buying in Europe and competition from Southeast Asian countries.
Unlike squids and cuttlefish, there are few consumers of octopus in India and most of the catch has to be sold overseas.
Every year, the country exports about Rs 200 crore worth octopus, which are netted in large numbers in Indian waters in the August to November period.
"The buying capacity of Europe has come down and it is looking for octopuses at cheap rates which are supplied by China and other Southeast Asian countries," said Bimaldas PS, partner of Emerald Exports and Imports, which regularly exports octopuses.
Traditionally, southern European countries like Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus along with Japan are the principal markets for octopus while the US is not a big buyer.
According to exporters, the higher catch did not translate into better earnings as the prices nearly halved from $3 per kg.
With shipments to Europe down, Indian seafood processors exported large quantities to China and Vietnam in the raw form.
After value addition, such shipments are re-exported at higher rates.
"The government has withdrawn 'vishesh krishi grama udyog yojana' benefit for octopus which made us lose the edge in competing with Southeast Asian countries," said Alphonse Joseph, managing director of Capithan Exporting Company, which exports about 1,000 tonnes of octopus annually.
Joseph said margins have come down as they pay about Rs 100 per kg to fishermen.
The octopuses supplied by Southeast Asian countries like Vietnam and Thailand are whiter and a large part of the catch falls into the 20-40 gm range which the Europeans generally prefer.
The Indian baby octopuses are smaller in size.
Joseph said that though the octopus haul increased in India, there was a decline in a particular variety found near Tuticorin and Kanyakumari shores.
While Morocco and Mauritania in West Africa are the chief suppliers of large octopuses, weighing 1kg or more, Japan has a big market for live octopus.
Email