The minister said the government has taken a number of steps to help companies provide better quality of services.
These include permission to trade and share spectrum.
NEW DELHI: The government may look at giving more teeth to telecom regulator Trai to initiate penal action against mobile operators for deficient services, even as telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told TOI that companies "need to do more" to improve quality.
With the Supreme Court quashing Trai's order to slap penalty on operators for call drops , the government is now looking at options to address the issue and how it can fix more accountability on mobile operators for poor services.
Also, it believes that companies need to invest more.
There have been demands that the government amend the law that governs the telecom regulator to give it more powers to slap penalties on operators for poor services.
"These may be considered, but I need to study the apex court's judgment and also look at the Trai Act.
We will look into all these issues," Prasad said.
He lobbed the ball in Trai's court to decide the next course of action.
"The ultimate call on the future direction needs to be taken by Trai as tariffs and quality of services fall under its domain.
As far as the larger issue of service quality is concerned, it is very much the responsibility of telecom companies to provide good, satisfactory services," Prasad said.
"They have to identify gaps and reinforce their network through investments."
The minister said the government has taken a number of steps to help companies provide better quality of services.
These include permission to trade and share spectrum.
Also, he listed out the upcoming spectrum auctions where the government will offer a record 2,000 MHz of mobile airwaves.
"I want to emphasize that the government has cleared all the pending policy issues regarding the sector.
Telecom companies now clearly need to do more.
The government will insist upon the operators that they must fulfil their obligations towards consumers," he said.
The minister said accountability needs to be fixed for the poor services.
"The operators need to take responsibility.
I am not only the telecom minister of the country, but equally the minister for consumer interest.
It is now time that the operators take steps to improve the services."
On the swipe taken by Kapil Sibal , the former telecom minister and the lawyer for mobile operators grouping, where he referred to Prasad as the "call drop minister", he said, "I do not want to comment specifically on what the counsel for the mobile operators said.
Either he should become a big lawyer or talk like a leader.
If he has commented as a lawyer, then it is unfortunate.
If he wants to talk to me as a political leader, I am ready with a good reply for him.
I too have lots of questions for him.
He has been a minister of this department."
Email