NEW DELHI: The Nifty50 made a bullish 'Hammer' pattern on daily charts but it made a 'Spinning Top' kind of pattern which is a slightly bearish pattern on the weekly charts for the second consecutive week in a row suggesting that the tussle between the bulls and the bears is far from over.
A spinning top pattern is formed when the real body is small but has distinctive upper as well as a lower shadow which suggests a wide range of price movement throughout the trading week.
This candle is often seen as a neutral pattern and should be studied with other indicators as well as patterns on the daily charts.
Two continuous Spinning Top patterns on the weekly charts suggest indecisiveness.
The market requires a strong trigger to breakdown or breakout from current levels.
The weekly trend still suggests negative bias, so, traders should use any bounce towards 7,800-8,000 as selling opportunity.
On daily charts Nifty50 made a bullish 'Hammer' pattern which suggests that the momentum could well be favouring towards the bull in the coming week.
However, if history is anything to go by, then the index will come under pressure whenever it starts trading around 7,800-8,000.
For the trend to reverse from here, most technical analysts are of the view that Nifty50 needs to surge past its crucial resistance level of 7,800-7880 for the momentum to hold.
Most traders are deploying sell on rise kind of strategy to gain from the trend.
"The Nifty50 made a 'Doji' followed by two consecutive spinning tops pattern indicates that immediate bounce may be seen as suggested by daily pattern while upside might not hold as weekly charts started to hint at a negative view," Chandan Taparia, Derivatives Analyst - Equity Research, Anand Rathi Financial Services told ETMarkets.com.
"The recent price formation has given a halt in buying and now traders started to utilize sell on rise opportunity till it doesn't cross and hold above recently its recently weekly high of 7880.
So, the ideal strategy should be to sell on the rise," he added.
The index has failed to cross the immediate hurdle of 7,777 zones on multiple occasions.
Going forward, if the index manages to sustain above this level we may see a bounce back move towards 7,850 or maybe towards 7,979 zones
However, if the index stays below 7,777 marks for long, it will slip towards its next crucial support level of 7,676 zones and below that 7,550-7,516 levels will lend support to the index.
The Nifty50 is trading well above its crucial 200-DMA on the weekly charts, but it is trading below its 50 as well as 100-DMA placed at 7,904 as well as 8,064 respectively.
The weekly price action on the charts suggests that market is taking the time to evaluate how valuation stands out during earning season.
A surprise from next batch of corporate results, as well as monsoons, could well act as next big trigger for markets .
The Nifty Future is showing a lack of downside momentum as the market failed to move lower in its multiple attempts after breaking below the intraday low.
After a sharp fall early this week this price pattern is encouraging for traders with a bullish view, say experts.
Lack of momentum itself does not ensure trend reversal and thus price action itself needs to provide confirmation, they say.
"For a short-term trend reversal, the confirmation will come only if market sustains above the level of 7,800 marks.
And a move above 8,000 to consider that market resumes its medium term up trend," Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd told ETMarkets.com.
"The Nifty50 bounced back and closed slightly above the level of 7700 mark on Friday, where we see a gap exists on the daily chart during last month.
A gap being the imbalance of demand and supply offer an important clue regarding support and resistance," he added.
Gadia expects 7,700 level on the Nifty50 will play a pivotal role for the market direction going forward.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email