If you are reading this, chances are the Sensex and the Nifty are part of your daily life, and actions on Dalal Street can make or mar your day.
That's probably the reason why you are on this page, where we try to capture every action -- big or small -- from the listed universe of India Inc; be it largecap, midcap or smallcap.
Plus, we keep you up-to-date on anything that may move your market.
(LIVEtweets@ETMarkets) Stay with us to stay updated!
@2.33 PM: Eicher Motors reports 72% YoY rise in Q4 net profit, announces Rs 100 per share dividend.
Read more
@2.16 PM: Tata Motors pared some losses by gaining over 3 per cent in day's trade after falling about 7% on the BSE on Wednesday after the company announced that vehicle sales dropped in the US in April.
But market analysts are not forecasting the worst for Tata Motors yet.
Luxury car maker Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), the wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Motors, reported a 2% fall in the US sales in April 2016.
While brokers indicated that the US sales for Tata Motors could be sluggish in the coming months too, analysts tracking the stock said markets were just over reacting.
Live chart here
@2.01 PM: Market extends gains, Sensex surges over 200 points; Nifty50 tests 7,750; HDFC, Tata Motors lead rally.
@1.53 PM: The recent correction in the domestic equity market has dented investor sentiment with options market activity suggesting that traders expect the market's base to shift lower during the ongoing F&O series.
Read more
@1.03 PM: EUROPE OPENS ON A POSITIVE NOTE: European stock markets rise, buoyed by some solid corporate earnings at the likes of BT, and a rise in the shares of major oil companies.
Firmer oil prices also lift the shares of major oil producers, with Spanish oil major Repsol up 4.5 percent despite posting lower first quarter profits.
@12.46 PM: IPO WATCH: The initial public offeringof Parag Milk Foods, the owner of 'Go' and 'Gowardhan' brands of milk products, saw tepid response the second day of the issue, as it received bids for 12 per cent of the total issue size of 1.91 crore shares.
Read more
@12.29 PM: ​Shares Indiabulls Real Estate spurted nearly 9 per cent in trade on Thursday after the company informed exchanges that it now has a majority stake of 51.18 per cent in Singapore-listed business trust IPIT, following an additional acquisition of 2.77 crore shares by its subsidiary, Grapene.
Live chart here
@12.10 PM: Shares of Hexaware Technologies came under immense pressure and were down over 9 per cent in Thursday's trade after the mid-cap IT company posted marginal rise in consolidated net profit for the March quarter.
Live chart here
@11:51 AM: Sensex is up 155 points while the broader Nifty50 is at 7,738 level.
HDFC, Tata Motors, BHEL, Lupin and Sun Pharma are leading the gains in the Sensex pack.
@11:34 AM: Shares of MOIL rise 2 per cent in trade.
The company got Maharashtra mining lease for 53.75 hectares.
@11:13 AM: Adani Enterprises down 2 per cent.
Top brokerage frim CLSA has maintained an underperform rating on the stock with a target of Rs 78.
@10:57 AM: Shares of Modern Dairies hit upper circuit limit of 20 per cent trade.
IFC has sold 20.6 lakh shares while Shilpa Porinju Veliyath has bought 1.5 lakh shares.
@10:30 AM: Options market activity suggests that traders expect the market's base to shift lower during the ongoing F&O series.
Read here
@10.15 AM: Sensex up 133 points; HDFC, Tata Motors, Sun Pharma and HDFC Bank are contributing most to the Sensex's rise.
Adani Ports tanks over 3%
@9:55 AM: 30 out of the 50 Nifty50 stocks gain in trade.
@9:48 AM: Lupin, Sun Pharma, HDFC, Tata Motors and Hero MotoCorp lead gains in the Sensex pack; Adani Ports, Axis Bank, SBI, M&M and Infosys are top losers.
@9: 29 AM: Shares of Ricoh India lose 5 per cent in trade.
The Bombay Stock Exchange has given it 21 days to comply with Securities and Exchange Board of India norms, else it may face delisting.
@9:20 AM: The S&P BSE Sensex surged over 100 points in early morning trade on Thursday tracking skittish trends in other Asian markets.
The gains on the index were led by Sun Pharma, HDFC, HDFC Bank and Tata Motors.
The 50-share NSE barometer Nifty50 also traded near its crucial support level of 7,750 supported by gains in pharma, banking, FMCG and IT stocks.
OPENING BELL: Sensex surges 100 points, Nifty50 nears 7,750; V-Guard jumps 13%, Sun Pharma 3%; Hexaware down 7%.
@9.00 AM: Domestic equity indices are likely to open on a tepid note on Thursday and extend their losing streak to a fourth session, following a fall in the US stocks in overnight trade.
A slew of key quarterly earnings scheduled for release later in the day may also keep the market depressed.
@8:55 AM: Five minutes before market opens, SGX Nifty is trading 0.11 per cent higher.
@8.50 AM: This is what is happening in Asia ....
@8.40 AM: And here's what happened in the US markets:
Meanwhile, this is what happened in the European markets:
@8.35 AM: Here goes a recap of how Sensex ended yesterday....
Meanwhile, in the financial markets yesterday: Rupee down: The rupee ended 13 paise lower at 66.55 against the US currency on fresh dollar demand from banks and importers on the back of higher greenback in the overseas market amid sustained fall in equities.
Fresh foreign capital outflows also affected the rupee value against the dollar.
Call rates fall: The overnight call money rates ended lower at the money market due to lack of demand from borrowing banks amid ample liquidity in the banking system.
The overnight call money rates finished lower at 6.15 per cent from Tuesday's closing level of 6.20 per cent.
Bonds rebound: Government bonds (G-Secs) rebounded on good buying support from banks and corporates.
The 7.59 per cent G-Secs maturing in 2026 rose to Rs 101.0600 from Rs 100.99 previously, while its yield inched down to 7.43 from 7.44 per cent.
The 7.88 per cent G-Secs maturing in 2030 moved up to Rs 101.01 from Rs 100.9475, while its yield edged down to 7.76 per cent from 7.77 per cent.
Liquidity: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), under the Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF), purchased securities worth Rs 74.93 billion in 15-bids at the overnight repo operations at a fixed rate of 6.50 per cent.
It sold securities worth Rs 19.24 billion from 23-bids at the overnight reverse repo auction at a fixed rate of 6.00 per cent as of May 3.
@8:30 AM: Take note of this:
India's biggest domestic institutional investor, LIC, raised stake in several Sensex stocks in March quarter, which include ICICI Bank, NTPC, Hero MotoCorp, TCS, Tata Motors, Hindustan Unilever and Adani Ports & SEZ.
It cut holdings in SBI marginally, but raised in other PSU banks such as Bank of Baroda, PNB, Canara Bank and Central Bank of India.
LIC also raised stake in HDFC Bank and kept it at same level in Axis Bank.
At the same time, LIC lowered stakes in some other Sensex stocks such as BHEL, Dr Reddy's Lab, Wipro and L&T.
@8:25 AM: What you must know before the market opens for trading
► US stocks posted their second consecutive day of losses in overnight trade, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average losing 99 points ahead of key US jobs data, which may hold clues to the Fed policy action in June.
Earlier, European stocks fell between 0.8 and 1.5 per cent.
► Asian stocks were trading in the green this morning, but Nifty futures on Singapore Stock Exchange indicated a flat to weak start on Dalal Street.
► Solid economic data in the US released overnight did somewhat abate fears of a slowdown in that economy, but it also raised speculation about a possible Fed rate hike in June.
The US services industry showed solid expansion.
► Oil prices have been down and out this week, falling off their recent six-month highs hit on the back of a decline in inventory and the dollar.
But both these factors have now reversed.
Data from EIA showed US crude stockpiles reached a new record high last week.
► Gold is having a time of its life this week with global and domestic prices hitting two-year highs on the back of renewed investor interest.
But demand in the world's second largest consumer, India, is set to hit fresh lows due to a rise in prices.
@8:20 AM:Stocks to watch:
Among the key quarterly earnings scheduled for release during the day are those of Hero MotoCorp, Eicher Motors, Indian Bank, Emami and MCX.
Other stocks that may see action in response to company-specific developments include:
NTPC, which has threatened to disconnect supply to Reliance Infra-backed discoms in Delhi from May 9 for non-payment of around Rs 1,300 crore dues
Kotak Bank, who got a boost from the Mumbai High Court, which has upheld its decision to invest in Thyrocare IPO
Coal India, whose production slipped in the first month of FY17, raising fears that sluggish demand will force it to cut back on output
Reliance Power, which has won an in-principle approval of the Bangladesh government for the first phase of the 3,000 mw LNG-based power plant
Idea Cellular, which plans tp spend Rs 8,627 crore for adding data spectrum in key markets in the upcoming auction around July
Tata Motors, which has announced a big drop in vehicle sales in the US in April.
@8.15 AM: And here are some Buy/Sell ideas to begin your trading day...
@8.00AM:Good morning, dear reader!
Here's something to kickstart your trading day...
One of the funny things about the stock market is that every time one person buys, another sells, and both think they are astute - William Feather
(Source: BSE/NSE/Reuters/sgxnifty.org)