By ET Now | 12 May, 2016, 01.42PM IST
'Expect incremental improvement in PSU banks' In a chat witH ET Now , Manish Sonthalia, Motilal Oswal Asset Management, says the three-year trajectory of the earnings growth in these names, justify their inclusion in his portfolio.
Edited excerpts Manish Sonthalia: Nothing much has changed.
Some of the names that you just mentioned have come out with good set of numbers.
It gives us conviction to hold these names even now.
In the near term, they may get fully valued for the next maybe six months to one year; but if you still look at the three-year trajectory of the earnings growth in these names, it justifies staying in the portfolio.
So that is why we have them in the portfolio.
So we really have not made too many changes.
ET Now: But the world has changed in the last three months.
Three months ago, we were discussing China fear; today, we are discussing Brexit.
Both in terms of the economic data.
The economic data has changed, IT is contracting and pharma is where the real problem is.
Two wheelers are making a comeback.
Oil consumption is making a comeback.
So this portfolio worked for you when the market positioning and the economic trajectory was different.
But in the last three months, a lot has changed.
It is like saying that the market and the economic trajectory have taken a complete 180-degree turn.
Manish Sonthalia : So the portfolio has been composed in such a way that some of the stock will do better than the market.
Some will perform in-line with the market and some will underperform the market at all points in time.
The idea is to create a balanced return on the portfolio which should do better than the benchmark and this is predicated on superior earnings growth compared to the benchmark.
This is how we have lived through the journey of the entire portfolio.
The largecap portfolio is now 12 years old, the midcap portfolio is now eight years old.
So if you look at the beta of the portfolio, it is less than one.
So it is not that if you just buy high-beta names that you continue to have a greater up capture.
The idea is to also have a decent down capture so that you do not fall more than the market in spite of very bad market conditions.
That's is how we look at the composition of the portfolio and in spite of all economic turbulence, the markets will give you a reason to be worried on a daily basis.
So whether it is Brexit, China, dollar-rupee equation.
Some sectors will continue to be in the limelight on a daily basis.
It is best to have a holistic picture and then bet down on individual companies in each of these sectors and see how the performance looks for each of these companies on ongoing basis.
ET Now: Year to date though, while I know your portfolio is largely concentred in pharma, auto, auto ancillary, etc, but year to date one has seen some of the beaten down sectors really come up - the likes of metals for instance, in bits in starts you have had real estate as well as the PSU banks as well make a fair amount of recovery.
Would you bet big on any of these underperformers or would you continue to stick to quality names which have performed well in the past?
Manish Sonthalia : Metals is a completely no-no.
These are tactical moves.
China throwing a lot of credit in the commodities market has resulted in means that we have seen the metal prices actually jump significantly over the last one-two months but it is not going to sustain because there is whole lot of overcapacity in the system and demand could somewhere be closer to supply only from FY20 onwards on an ongoing basis.
There will be one-off metals here and there where demand would be more than supply but on an ongoing basis, these are trading bets, these are not investment bets specifically in the metal space.
In real estate, the entire cycle seems to have turned both in the residential as well as the commercial real estate, but we do not buy a sector.
We buy individual companies and we all know the corporate governance standards in the real estate space.
So the day we are confident that the company is good in terms of corporate governance and outlook on the project they are executing and that they are going to make decent money, we shall look into it.
But definitely this is one of the sectors which is at its all-time low but the situation at the ground level seems to be turning for the better.
With most of the pain points as far as the PSU banks are concerned seems to be out, post the fourth quarter AQR review by banks, we think that PSU banks also would be pricing in most of the worst news that was supposed to come in and things should get incrementally better.
The idea is to find some good names in the space.
We own State Bank of India that is the best of the lot.
We shall continue to stick with that.
ET Now: Well I am not surprised.
Steel, bankruptcy code, a lot of these things add teeth to banks.
Hopefully, the returns come in but do you think that if not in FY17, then in FY18 because the NPA problems might not be as bad as before and some of the potential NPAs could actually turn into good accounts and also this bankruptcy code and a few other measures will add more teeth.
Do you think banks can contribute in a meaningful way to the index earnings of FY18?
Manish Sonthalia: It is absolutely true that once the cycle turns -- and there are ample signs that the cycle is turning for the better -- all the amounts will be returned and that will flow through the earnings.
If things works out well for State Bank of India, we can even look at doubling of profits in the next two and a half-three years.
It is a classic contra bet, hardcore value play and when the cycle turns, obviously the virtuous cycle for the earnings growth on these banks would come through.
Of course you will have to look into the pedigree of how these banks have performed over cycles and we continue to have the maximum conviction on State Bank of India in this space.
ET Now: A very interesting position in your portfolio is HPCL.
Now the logic is that when oil prices are down, oil marketing stocks will do well.
What is the thesis of buying oil marketing stocks at a time when the decline in oil is behind us?
Manish Sonthalia: The oil marketing companies are a play on the gross refining margins.
The marketing margins and inventory losses which were there in FY16 would no longer be there in FY17.
That is a huge delta figure as far as FY17 or FY16 are concerned.
You continue to see that in the numbers for FY17.
Gross refining margins are now lower than what we have seen for the fourth quarter and that is why you have seen some correction in names like HPCL over the March period, but suffice it to say that if you look at it like that, $4.5 is the gross refining margin, Rs 1.50 paisa to Rs 1.70 paisa is the marketing margin per litre of petrol and diesel and if you translate that into dollars, it would roughly be again gross marketing margin would be $4 and crude oil price is now closer to $45-$47 now at the EBITDA level.
On a YoY basis you will see some significant jump -- 6 per cent ROE on an HPCL for FY15 will translate into a 20 per cent ROE and what is the product consumption growth?
Obviously petrol and diesel will continue to grow in terms of volume by 6-7 per cent on an annualised basis.
Put in perspective, all that can you get this business at six times-seven time PE with a 3-4 per cent dividend yield and it is a steal.
Markets are still not pricing in the worst situation, the best possible situation for the oil marketing, we got to believe and the markets refuses to believe that oil is in a decontrol era that is why you have these valuation that the day the markets gets a conviction that oil is decontrolled, petrol and diesel is decontrolled you cannot have these stocks at these prices.
ET Now: There are two ways to make money.
One you bet on earnings expansion, second you bet on PE expansion.
If I look at the bulk of your stocks, they are pretty much trading at historical peaks in terms of PE multiple whether it is Page, Eicher or Asian Paints.
So the scope for PE expansion is not there.
Let us look at the other aspect earnings expansion and some would argue that earnings expansion is best in names like Eicher or Asian Paints and that will not be more than 15-18 per cent.
So is it a good strategy to buy stocks just because earnings are growing at 15-17 per cent and earning scope for PE expansion is not there?
Manish Sonthalia : I disagree with the assumption that companies like Eicher will grow at only about 18 per cent.
Companies like Eicher will still be growing at on a three year CAGR basis at more than 25 per cent and a company like Bosch for the next two years would be growing at 35-40 per cent.
So what looks like a 40 PE stock today, if you were to take FY18 into perspective it is a 22 PE stock and historically if you look at the valuation of a Bosch, it has always been more than 20 times.
This is running across time periods and if you look at an Eicher from an FY18 basis, it is at 25 PE stock.
So valuation is a moving target.
If you are convinced about the earnings growth, then it is about estimation of terminal value in your mind, how the businesses terminal value is going to look like and what handle you have on, how the terminal value should be, what the terminal value should be on a longer term basis and you find the present value of that and that is how the PE gets translated into whatever number we are looking at.
We are not betting on PE expansion or contraction for that matter.
We are just building in the PE the earnings growth and that is why we have those stocks in the portfolio, it is not to say that we are looking at any further PE expansion on these things if we get it, it is good but we are more sure about the earnings growth on some of the names that you took.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email