Business Standard
Business Standard |
New DelhiMay 11, 2016 Last Updated at 21:05 IST
Copy tiny URL to save and share articles.
While policymakers and economists seem wary of making long-term projections, given the uncertain global economic scenario, politicians in general are never short of breath or braggadocio.
So at an event in Delhi, when a member of the audience requested Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan to predict the exchange rate and the inflation rate five years from now, he seemed to dither for a moment.
As the packed hall broke into laughter, someone in the audience quipped, "Only (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi can answer that."
While policymakers and economists seem wary of making long-term projections, given the uncertain global economic scenario, politicians in general are never short of breath or braggadocio.
So at an event in Delhi, when a member of the audience requested Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan to predict the exchange rate and the inflation rate five years from now, he seemed to dither for a moment.
As the packed hall broke into laughter, someone in the audience quipped, "Only (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi can answer that.
"While policymakers and economists seem wary of making long-term projections, given the uncertain global economic scenario, politicians in general are never short of breath or braggadocio.
So at an event in Delhi, when a member of the audience requested Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan to predict the exchange rate and the inflation rate five years from now, he seemed to dither for a moment.
As the packed hall broke into laughter, someone in the audience quipped, "Only (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi can answer that."
Daniel Gros: Is globalisation really fuelling populism?
A close look at statistics belies the argument that the losers of globalisation are revolting against the elites
Ajai Shukla: Drama in Dharamsala Cancelling Uyghur leader Dolkun Isa's visa could have been a mutual face-saving exercise for New Delhi & Beijing
A K Bhattacharya: Towards a new cooking gas regime The government hopes that the task of identifying the poor would be less difficult by using a combination of methods, so that there is no misuse
Widgets Magazine Ad 3 Strong Fundamental Stocks for 2016: StockAxis Ad Open a demat account with Sharekhan & learn online trading.
Pranjul Bhandari: India's GDP headed towards auto-correction Ad 3 Strong Fundamental Stocks for 2016: StockAxis Ad Open a demat account with Sharekhan & learn online trading.
Uber and out
Shankar Acharya: A tiger cub in the neighbourhood?
A great deal needs to be done quickly & systematically if Myanmar is to realise its potential for agricultural growth
A V Rajwade: Old wine in new bottles In terms of concept, peer-to-peer lending is not much different from a chit fund
Shyamal Majumdar: Daiichi Sankyo's self-goal Common perception about Japan Inc is that they don't fall in love so easily and a prized skill for corporate leaders in that country lies in ...
Widgets MagazineWidgets Magazine
Widgets Magazine