By ET Bureau | 12 May, 2016, 02.27AM IST
His success in winning the trust vote has established that there were no camps of Satapal Maharaj or Vijay Bahuguna within the Uttarakhand Congress.
By Sanjay Singh DEHRADUN: When Harish Rawat takes over as chief minister of Uttarakhand for the third time, he would be in total command of his party organisation and government.
Unlike the past, none in the Uttarakhand Congress would be in position to challenge him and he remain the party's sole face in the coming assembly polls.
His success in winning the trust vote has established that there were no camps of Satapal Maharaj or Vijay Bahuguna within the Uttarakhand Congress.
While former Union minister Maharaj left the Congress before the last Lok Sabhapolls and joined the BJP, former CM Bahuguna faces the toughest challenge to his political career after his failed attempt to break the party and oust Rawat from power with the help of the BJP.
The disqualification of 9 MLAs belonging to the Bahuguna faction has given Rawat the sole power to select party candidates of his choice in all 9 constituencies.
He has already toured parts of the nine seats represented by the rebels.
Sources in the Congress said he may change the constituencies of his MLAs too for the assembly polls due early next year.
"In absence of rival camps, he will enjoy full freedom to run his government and the party.
In his long political career, this is the first such opportunity for him," a party insider said, recalling Rawat's rivalry with Congress veteran ND Tiwari.
Rawat was the state Congress president in 2000 and his party was elected to power in 2002.
However, the Congress highcommand opted for Tiwari who sidelined him.
Since then, he has continued his battle against rivals within his party.
It happened again when the highcommand chose Bahuguna over him after the 2012 polls.
"That phase is now over.
Rawat's freedom from rivals within his party means a tough battle for BJP to grab power in the state," the source said.
Aware of his new position Rawat said, "there is no point in opening a closed chapter.
They have to undergo penance," when asked about the fate of 9 disqualified Congress MLAs.
Does Rawat prefer early elections?
Even if he is certain, he has not indicated it.
At his first press conference after the Centre said it was revoking President's rule, Rawat said he would consult his colleagues on any decision on early polls.
He claimed that he was one among those who believed every opportunity must be used for the state's development.
He did not forget to thank BSP chief Mayawati and BJP MLA Bhim Lal Arya, who cross-voted during the trust vote.
Rawat focused on development issues instead of spending time on political bickering.
He talked about state's inclusive growth and development of villages in hills.
He underlined the need for better coordination between the state and the Centre.
He said that Uttarakhand was a small state but had a big ambition.
Rawat may induct two new faces in his ministry.
One berth is vacant since the death of BSP leader Surendra Rakesh in February 2015 and the other was caused by exit of Harak Singh Rawat, one among the 9 disqualified rebels.
Rawat may induct BSP MLA Sarwat Karim Ansari in place of Surendra Rakesh.
Email