By Palak Shah , ET Bureau | 10 May, 2016, 06.30AM IST
MUMBAI: Minority shareholders of the troubled MNC Ricoh India are likely to move court against the company's board, independent directors, Japanese parent and even the auditors BSR & Co.
In the past six months, the stock has crashed 75% from a high of Rs 1,072 following a tussle between the company's board and auditors.
Ricoh India, a subsidiary of Japanese major Ricoh, did not file its financial results for the September and December 2015 quarters.
The Japanese parent owns 73.6% of Ricoh India and the rest is scattered among minority shareholders.
The main reason cited for non-filing of results was the longer-than -usual delay by BSR & Co. to furnish the signed quarterly financial reports to the Audit Committee.
"Ricoh India is the best example of how lax our capital market regulatory system can be," said Dilip Vora who owns more than 80,000 shares in the company.
"Ricoh shares fell like a pack of cards but no authority, including Sebi , could get more details in six months.
I have reached out to most minority shareholders of Ricoh and we may soon move the court."
Another large shareholder of Ricoh India said that suspension of company (from trading) for non-filing of results could only aid the Japanese parent, which has twice made unsuccessful attempts to delist.
The BSE has put Ricoh India's scrip under watch in the 'Z' category and has set a deadline for suspension of trading in shares of Ricoh India if it failed to file results.
In response to a query from ET, BSR & Co. said the firm is governed by the code of ethics of the ICAI and follows strict confidentiality of information of its clients.
"BSR has and will continue working based on applicable professional standards and will respond appropriately in case of any regulatory inquiry."
"With the ongoing investigations, the finalisation of quarterly financial results of the company have been delayed.
We have made regular disclosures to BSE on this matter," Ricoh India spokesperson said.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email