By PTI | 9 May, 2016, 04.10PM IST
Prakash Javadekar said the government will proceed on the issue after receiving the response of states while asserting that protecting river ecology was its paramount duty
NEW DELHI: Nineteen states are yet to respond to the Centre's plan to formulate a Draft River Regulation Zone (RRZ) which envisages setting up of a National River Conservation Zone Authority, government told the Rajya Sabha today.
Replying to supplementaries during Question Hour, Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar said the government will proceed on the issue after receiving the response of states while asserting that protecting river ecology was its paramount duty.
He informed the House that his ministry has formulated a Draft River Regulation Zone (RRZ) under the provisions of Environment (Protection)Act, 1986 and circulated it to State/ UT governments/administration on January 8 this year.
"The draft has been sent to states.
10 states have responded to it.
Some have raised objections.
Some have supported it.
We have written to the remaining 19 states to give their response.
As soon as the responses come, we will hold a meeting," he said.
The draft RRZ is proposed to have three cateogries of River Conversation Zone (RCZ), namely Prohibited Activities Zone (RCZ-PA), Restricted Activities Zone (RCZ-RA I) and Regulated Activities Zone (RCZ-RA II) in the floodplains of rivers and two categories of river conservation zones, namely RCZ-PA and RCZ-RA I in mountain rivers and streams.
Javadekar said this while replying to a question about the steps taken by the Ministry to regulate developmental activities on river fronts and floodplains.
Javadekar replied in negative to a question on whether there was any proposal to ban all developmental activities near vulnerable floodplain and river beds.
"The draft RRZ notification does not ban all developmental activities near vulnerable floodplains and river beds.
It proposes to prohibit, restrict as well as regulate certain activities in the river conservation zones in order to conserve and protect river ecosystem in the country," he said.
Asked about government's plan to monitor whether these guidelines were being followed by all states, the Minister said the draft RRZ notification proposes to have National River Conservation Zone Authority and State River Conservation Zone Authority to monitor the implementation of various provisions of the said notification.
"These authorities shall involve village level institutions and important NGOs for keeping watch on river stretches.
They will coordinate with District Administration in this regard," he said.
Flagging his objections to the Centre's proposed RRZ notifications, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had last week said it will severely constraint Odisha's development.
He had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi , pointing out that the Centre was "overstepping" its jurisdiction under the federal structure, since water was a state subject.
He had also urged Modi not to rush implemention of the proposed notification.
Maintaining that the country needs to protect river ecology, Javadekar said "it is our paramount duty to protect river ecolology.
Therefore, we have come out with Draft River Regulation Zone notification."
Replying to supplementaries, he said the government has circulated the drfat to all states and communicate on the issue further after getting their response.
"We are also studying all best practices of the world," he said.
Javadekar said that efforts to protect the river zone are to be taken by the states as it is their subject, while the Centre will formulate the guidelines for it.
Email