NEW DELHI: As volatility has returned to Dalal Street , investors are looking for reasons to book profit and turn fence-sitters.The gains that the benchmark indices notched up over the past two months have been curtailed to some extent over the past few days as global concerns weighed on sentiments.
"Calendar 2016 will be a volatile year for the market, as we have seen so far.
Allianz Global Investors still expects two more rate hikes by the UD Fed, which means the probability of a June rate hike is increasing, and expect more action from the Bank of Japan and more from China going forward," said Stefan Scheurer, Senior Strategist, Global Capital Markets & Thematic Research, Allianz GI.
"We think volatility will persist in global markets and will actually lead the flows globally," he said.
Amid such uncertainty, India is emerging as a beacon of hope.
Much has already been said about the country being a 'bright spot', but new factors are converging from all directions to aid the economy and the stock market.
Here are the five factors that experts believe make it the best time to bet on India:
1) Green shoots in the economy: Pankaj Murarka, Head of Equity at Axis Mutual Fund, is seeing the first signs of a solid economic recovery on the ground.
India's GDP growth is already the fastest in the world, but economists have been sceptical about the situation on the ground.
"In India, for the first time we are seeing some signs of recovery in the economy after a gap of four years.
There are a lot of high-velocity indictors which show that the economy is turning around.
So, that is very significant," he said.
"If some of these data points sustain over the next few quarters, then we will probably have more confidence on the recovery of the economy and if that is the case, then there is certainly a strong case for equities as an asset class," he said.
2) Corporate capex, debt recovery: Adrian Mowat, Chief EM & Asian Equity Strategist at JPMorgan, is becoming ever so more confident about a recovery in India Inc's capital expenditure cycle.
The absence of private investment in the economy is said to be one of the top reasons why India has not grown to its potential.
"There is evidence in terms of early corporate capex, whether it is in terms of truck sales or infrastructure spending.
The economy is gradually building up some momentum," he said.
In a recent report, Morgan Stanley said the country's corporate debt crisis is near its end and with cash flows turning positive for the first time in a decade, private investment can be expected to pick up.
"The worst of India's corporate debt crisis is likely over.
Macro rebalancing has happened.
Savings are up and growth is likely to recover in the coming quarters.
Growth in corporate debt has been stemmed," Morgan Stanley said.
3) Valuations are improving: The over 12 per cent correction in the stock market since the lifetime highs hit in March 2015 means the market valuation has come down to more attractive levels, experts feel.
"The market has pulled back a lot over the past 12 months and thus valuations have become more reasonable," said Paul Schulte, Schulte Research.
"Valuations of all good quality largecap stocks are fair.
I would not say there is too much value on the table in the near term," said Parag Thakkar, Head Institutional Sales, HDFC Securities.
4) Nascent recovery in earnings: Prabhat Awasthi, Head of Equity & MD at Nomura, says the ongoing earnings season is panning out better than most expected it to.
"It is definitely better than what we were used to in the past three quarters.
So there is an expectation of improvement," he said.
"We started the April earnings season on low expectation and to our surprise till now although it is still the first half, I think the second batch of earnings has been slightly above expectation," Pankaj Tibrewal said.
Pankaj Tibrewal expects earnings to make an even stronger recovery in the second half of the year with PAT growth seen at 15-25 per cent on annualised basis.
5) Bank earnings show potential: "I think it is great that the Indian financials or banks, especially HDFC, are pulling ahead globally.
They are in the lead in terms of a lot of the new developments in financial technology," said Paul Schulte.
Leaving out public sector banks and ICICI Bank , the Street's reaction to private lenders has been positive.
"If we just look at the whole pack of private sector banks and divide them into two baskets, for the one basket which is in the league of HDFC Bank , Yes Bank , IndusInd Bank , the implied guidance is still pointing to a 20-30 per cent earnings growth in FY17.
That pack will still deliver that much stock return from here on," said Rajat Rajgarhia, CEO-Institutional Equities, Motilal Oswal Securities.
After the crackdown in February, banking stocks have recovered over 9 per cent in the past two months and have aided the rally seen on the benchmark, in which they account for over one-third of total weightage.