Business Standard
Press Trust of India |
New DelhiMay 5, 2016 Last Updated at 12:48 IST
Copy tiny URL to save and share articles.
Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar along with the top security brass today reviewed the country's security situation, including in Jammu and Kashmir.
The high-level meeting took stock of the prevailing situation in hinterland and border areas, particularly in Jammu and Kashmir which recently saw unrest following killing of four persons in action by security forces on protesters who were demonstrating against alleged molestation of a girl.
Official sources said National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Army Chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag and Intelligence Bureau Director Dineswar Sharma briefed the meeting their respective inputs and the steps taken to beef up security in sensitive places.
Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi and other top officials also attended the nearly hour-long meeting chaired by the Home Minister.
The high-level meeting took stock of the prevailing situation in hinterland and border areas; charted out steps taken to increase security
Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar along with the top security brass today reviewed the country's security situation, including in Jammu and Kashmir.The high-level meeting took stock of the prevailing situation in hinterland and border areas, particularly in Jammu and Kashmir which recently saw unrest following killing of four persons in action by security forces on protesters who were demonstrating against alleged molestation of a girl.
Official sources said National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Army Chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag and Intelligence Bureau Director Dineswar Sharma briefed the meeting their respective inputs and the steps taken to beef up security in sensitive places.
Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi and other top officials also attended the nearly hour-long meeting chaired by the Home Minister.
Widgets Magazine Ad 3 Strong Fundamental Stocks for 2016: StockAxis Ad Open a demat account with Sharekhan & learn online trading.
Ad Buy Religare Health Insurance, No paperwork.
No tests till 45 yrs & Sum CAIT alleges Flipkart violated e-commerce FDI norms Ad 3 Strong Fundamental Stocks for 2016: StockAxis Ad Open a demat account with Sharekhan & learn online trading.
Ad Buy Religare Health Insurance, No paperwork.
No tests till 45 yrs & Sum Automakers in a fix over their diesel strategy
Widgets Magazine