 
Securities regulators disagree
TWENTY years ago, when the rich lode of gold discovered in Indonesia by Bre-X Minerals turned out to be fictitious, prompting the company’s collapse, Canadian securities regulators passed a flurry of new rules meant to prevent further such embarrassments.
Yet there are more than a few similarities between Bre-X and Sino-Forest, the company whose hearing for fraud in front of the Ontario Securities Commission enters its final phase this week, including the likelihood that shareholders will not recover any of the billions the firm was once thought to be worth.
Both firms had Canadian headquarters and Canadian directors and were listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
In both cases, the company’s assets (timber plantations in China in the case of Sino-Forest) were on the other side of the world, making it hard to confirm their value.
Each soared to a market capitalisation of C$6 billion ($4.7 billion at current rates).
Underwriters, analysts and regulators long ignored signs of trouble, before suddenly losing faith.
That happened with Bre-X when its chief geologist fell or jumped out of a helicopter en route to meet the due-diligence team of a prospective buyer.
The trigger for Sino-Forest’s bust was less spectacular but just as damaging: a report published in 2011 by Muddy Waters, an American research firm, which labelled it “a multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme”.
Lawyers for senior managers of Sino-Forest say that any overstatement of assets was unintentional, and that Canadian regulators do not understand Chinese business culture.
There have been lots of cases in which foreign assets used to raise money on Canadian exchanges were not what they seemed, says Neil Gross of the Canadian Foundation for Advancement of Investor Rights, an advocacy group.
“We’re getting a rerun of a bad movie we’ve seen before,” he says.
Various reasons are put forward for the sequels, including a lack of vigilance on the part of regulators, fines that pale in comparison with the money to be made and a preference for relatively lenient regulatory enforcement rather than criminal prosecutions.
But the biggest problem is Canada’s fragmented securities regulation.
Alone among big economies, Canada does not have a national securities regulator, but 13 separate ones in each of its ten provinces and three territories.
The provincial securities commissions have limited powers, budgets and staff, so naturally struggle to get to the bottom of complicated frauds that span the globe.
One remedy, says Anita Anand of the University of Toronto, would be greater use of criminal sanctions in cases of securities fraud.
Underwriters, analysts, advisers and exchange staff would be more vigilant, she argues, if they faced the prospect of a long stint in jail.
Deterrence is important because of the difficulty in collecting financial penalties once a fraud is proved; the money has usually vanished long before the justice system renders its verdict and would anyway be especially hard to recover from abroad.
But criminal prosecutions require a higher burden of proof than the balance of probability enshrined in securities law.
Collecting the necessary evidence would be tricky without a tough national regulator.
The Supreme Court knocked back an effort by the previous government to create such a body.
But the new government is trying again.
On May 5th it released for consultation a draft law that would grant the federal government a role in addressing systemic risks in capital markets and criminal enforcement—both areas which the Supreme Court conceded were under federal jurisdiction.
Most provinces support the idea, but Alberta and Quebec, always steadfast defenders of provincial prerogative, show no signs of relenting.