BJP reaches out to Dalits through Simhastha KumbhBhagwat visited Ujjain on Thursday to inaugurate an International Vichar Mahakumbh, while PM Modi will be there on Saturday to release a document on lectures about human welfare.
Shah visited the holy city on Wednesday to take a dip in the Kshipra river in the company of saints.
UJJAIN: The Simhastha Kumbh is being harnessed by the BJP as a godsend opportunity to combine its twin objectives of espousing the cause of Hindutva and the Scheduled Castes, with PM Modi, party chief Amit Shah and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat taking turns to visit the place.
Shah visited the holy city on Wednesday to take a dip in the Kshipra river in the company of saints, mostly from the Dalit community, and later broke bread with them.
He sought the blessings of these saints from 13 influential Akharas — each enjoying a sizable following and clout among various castes and communities, including the Dalits — to make India a "vishwa guru" under the leadership of PM Modi.
Bhagwat visited Ujjain on Thursday to inaugurate an International Vichar Mahakumbh, while PM Modi will be there on Saturday to release a document on lectures about human welfare.
BJP leaders say the Simhastha Kumbh — held once in 12 years and considered a very auspicious occasion for devout Hindus — is a perfect platform to reach out to various castes and communities.
The party appeared to have taken care of all the symbolisms while organising the holy dip by Shah.
The event was organised at Valmiki Ghat.
Saint Valmiki, who wrote the Ramayana, was a Dalit.
The saints, retired bureaucrats and police officials, who took the dip and offered prayers with Shah, were mostly from the Dalit community, party sources said.
The event was called "Samrasta Snan (a holy bath for social harmony)".
Shah followed this up with felicitations of the saints and then participated in a community feast with them.
"Today there is a government at the Centre that wants religious and cultural unity in the country and establishment of peace and harmony...
It is the duty of the dispensation to honour and respect the religious leaders.
We need your blessings to make India a vishwa guru (world power) under PM Modi...
I bow to all saints on behalf of the PM," Shah said.
With elections in Punjab and UP just months away, BJP is even more concerned about reaching out to the Dalits.
The Centre has emphasised that several of its schemes, like Jan Dhan Yojana, Skill Development and Mudra Banks, will directly benefit the Dalits and weaker sections.
BJP's Hindutva plank during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections had paid dividends in UP where it attracted the Dalits — especially the young voters among them — towards the party.
BJP leaders feel along with the Ram temple issue, if the party can take the Dalits along it would have a wide voter base that would help it win the assembly polls.
BJP is also hopeful of getting a good chunk of SC votes in Punjab too.
Email