In a chat with ET Now, Deepak Shenoy, Founder, Capital Mind, says a lot of midcap IT going weak this quarter and it is a little surprising for us considering Infy and TCS had such comparatively good results.
Edited excerpts ET Now: I do not how closely you look at the numbers of Hexaware but was it a disappointment?
Deepak Shenoy: I think so.
I just had a look at the numbers.
I think the disappointment largely comes from the fact that the banking and financial services sector has grown the most, it also has the highest dip in margins.
They have actually seen the segmental results being the worst affected in that sector and I do not know in which sector the number of clients has seen a ramp down but it has a pretty big effect on the results.
As for other segments, other than travel and transport, all the other segments also have seen substantially lower numbers compared to the same quarter last year.
So I believe that there has been margin pressure across the board as well and they do have some income coming in from hedges but that is not anything substantial.
So overall, I think the numbers are weak.
We have seen a lot of midcap IT going weak this quarter and it is a little surprising for us considering Infy and TCS had such comparatively good results.
So I believe there is a bit of a slowdown impact that seems to be happening to mid-cap IT at this point.
ET Now: Which stock within the two-wheeler segment would you prefer?
TVS has shown that it was a very poor quarter for them.
Would it be Eicher, TVS or would it be Hero?
oOr for that matter even a Bajaj actually?
Deepak Shenoy: We have a soft corner for Hero here but Eicher has a way better performance metric.
It also is much more expensive.
So in comparison even though looking at April numbers, 41 per cent year-on-year growth, I think Eicher would take the cake and the second would be Hero in our view.
ET Now: For quarters at length, M&M Financial was ignored.
At some point of time, things improved for them and now it is doing well.
Can the same happen to Bharat Forge at some point of time over the course of the next 6-12 months?
Can they turn around?
Deepak Shenoy: I hope so.
We have liked the stock earlier.
We have been buyers of course.
We no longer hold the stock but the thing about Bharat Forge was that it was a multi pronged play.
It was not just about North America truck, it was also about India defence.
It was a number of other manufacturing facilities that it was looking at to fit into and none of those plans have actually shown significant traction.
So I believe next 6-12 months we might get more clarity and while they diversify their portfolio , they might see a revival in the US.
The CV movement positively affects them.
And if the US economy is recovering, I do not see why that should not be the case.
ET Now: Considering the late stage trials for the psoriasis drug has met the goals, Sun Pharma has now surged a good 2.6 per cent as we speak.
And you too like this stock.
Is it still a good buy at Rs 825?
Deepak Shenoy: Yes, I think so.
Here as a disclosure we have been long in it for a while.
We have been buying through the fall, it is still way off of its 50 or all time high numbers and we believe that the merger with Ranbaxy will take a little longer to play out.
So the stock may be under pressure for a little longer while yesterday's good news about the drug or about an upgrade will positively impact it.
I believe the short term remains a little negative for it.
Until we get some good news through FDA or some of the acquisition potential starts to show in the pipeline, I think in the long term, this stock has a long way to go.
We like the fact that it is growing inorganically and it has the potential to become India's foremost or largest growing pharma company.
I say that as a disclosure I own it.
ET Now: Congratulations on the big move on Sun Pharma today.
But what about Strides Arcolab ?
You like that one as well.
What is the rationale behind that?
Deepak Shenoy: Again, this is a smaller company but again they have merged with Shasun .
They have done couple of acquisitions - one in Kenya, some in Australia.
This inorganic growth by Strides is what is attractive.
They do have some potential.
The negative news came around last year.
So we have a longer term focus in that stock.
It has come back substantially.
It went down to Rs 850 odd and now it is back to about Rs 1100.
We await results to see how well they have done but we believe that the inorganic story will play over the next eight quarters and we expect much higher numbers from where we are currently.
ET Now: You have looked at Ricoh India and for all the talk of smart money entering the stock at Rs 325 and how it is a great contrarian buy, everybody has got a slap on their face as it is down 5 per cent on a lower circuit today again at Rs 271?
Deepak Shenoy: Honestly, I think they should take the circuits off of this one.
This is almost unbelievable.
I do not even know what to say.
This is Japanese pedigree company, which is behaving not like a Japanese pedigree company.
It is really a failure of corporate governance and forget the financials or the lack of them right now.
Forget everything else, you just would not enter the stock if it was not named Ricoh and people would not even give this stock a second thought.
The problem right now is you do not have information, the top management has been laid off, there is still no sign of any of the financial statements coming through, the two auditors seem to be giving conflicting views.
This is not a stock you want to get into no matter what sector it is in, no matter what pedigree it has.
Would just say avoid completely.
And honestly, they should take off the circuits, let it find the absolute bottom it has to go to.