In a chat with ET Now , Chirag Setalvad, Senior Fund Manager-Equity, HDFC MF, says it is prudent to be more oriented towards largecaps, that does not mean that the long term prospects for midcaps is not good.
Edited excerpts ET Now: Where do you see opportunity in this market?
Chirag Setalvad: Today, we are seeing greater opportunities in largecaps and in midcaps.
In the last year or so, a lot of money has come into the midcap category.
There's a great deal of interest from the domestic investors, HNIs and that has held up the midcap part of the market and we have not seen any outflows.
So far, dips in the market have been associated with inflows.
So the midcap category has held up very well.
Midcaps used to trade on an average at 15 per cent discount on largecaps.
Today, they trade at 10 per cent premium to large caps.
So, keeping that in mind, it is prudent to be more oriented towards largecaps, which does not mean that the long term prospects for midcaps is not good.
So there we remain very positive.
It is more when we are talking about from near term say year, year-and-a-half standpoint.
ET Now: Let us talk about one of your flagship schemes which you manage -- the HDFC midcap fund.
It is nearly $2 billion now.
If I scan through the top holding or the key holdings of that fund, you have taken a disproportionate bet in the NBFC space.
Pharma space is suffering but you got a decent exposure there.
A little bit of exposure is also there in banks.
So let us first start with NBFCs.
The call has worked for you.
My compliments for that but what is the way forward for NBFCs and why do you still like it?
Chirag Setalvad : We are a little bit more apprehensive on NBFCs today.
When we bought into these companies, they had very good ROEs and their valuations were not reflecting that and they were growing well with good managements.
Today, that situation has changed a bit because they have delivered in the last couple of years and they have got lots of investor interest in the last couple of years.
As a result, valuations have moved up from what used to be 1.5-1.8 times book value to now 2.5-3 depending on which company you take.
So today, the case for owning NBFCs is becoming a lot more challenging because NBFCs now trade at valuations at par with large private sector banks; both have similar ROEs, which mean over a period of time they will grow at broadly similar paces.
So do you rather own a large cap private sector bank which is growing at 25% where there is significant liquidity or do you own an NBFC which is also high quality, similar ROEs which means similar long-term growth but where liquidity is quite different.
So I think the case today for NBFCs versus private sector banks has come down in favour of private sector banks.
ET Now: Pharmaceuticals are your top holdings and we are not getting into a stock specific conversation but Aurobindo Pharma has worked like a charm for you, Torrent Power is right up there.
Pharma space is in a complete disarray - a) pricing power is going b) US FDA clampdown is making sure that these companies have to reboot themselves.
What are your thoughts on pharma?
Chirag Setalvad: So I think unfortunately we categorise pharma into one block but companies have very different profiles.
So I think first we have to keep in mind that different companies have different exposures to geographies including the Indian geographies so not all companies are equally exposed to India or the US or developing market.
So I think it is easy to paint companies with the same brush but actually their profiles are quite different.
Even there with their manufacturing capabilities, their focus on quality is different.
So the good news is that people look at pharma.
They see the same concerns and therefore they evaluate companies in a similar fashion .
But if you dig deeper, then you realise that different companies have different profiles, different sort of risk, matrix and as a result there is an opportunity.
If you are stock specific to pick reasonable ideas.
So I think not only in pharma it is true in pharma, it is true in IT and industrials as well.
They key in certainly in midcaps but possibly otherwise as well.
You have to be stock specific because companies have very different profiles in the same sector.e
ET Now: So where are you confident of better growth and better days?
Chirag Setalvad : So in general, we are quite positive that the economy will turn around.
Now, there has been this expectation for almost year-and-a-half and it has not panned out.
But as you see on the ground, indicators have certainly turned positive whether it is in car sales or cement sales.
So you are seeing economic prospects beginning to improve.
So over the next couple of years, two parts of the market will stand to do better.
One is those which are economically sensitive includes to some extent banks and to some extent industrial products.
These are the most economically sensitive and construction is another sector.
So those are segments which should do well.
I think the other segment which should do well is where valuations are bombed out.
Now again that is true in banks, not so true in industrials but it is also true in commodities where you are seeing a lot of value on the table.
So I think either where you see companies benefitting from the economic recovery or where valuations are sensible, I think those are the two broad areas which look interesting but I think again having said that the key in this is to be specific focus on companies and look at the individual profiles because within banks, there are companies that obviously we would like and not like in a cheap sector.
Similarly in expensive sector, there will be plenty of things that we like and do not like.
So it is important at the expense of reputation to look at individual companies.
ET Now: But in general, earnings recovery has disappointed even though the macro has been near perfect.
We have got rate cuts.
Crude prices have come down.
The benefits of a decline in commodity prices is visible now.
But earnings generally have been slightly slow.
Barring two or three pockets, the pickup is not there.
So why do you think markets have gone so wrong in assessing the earnings recovery?
Chirag Setalvad: As you said the environment is very fertile.
All the ingredients are in place.
The problem is this is not like baking a cake.
It is not that you put in ingredients, put it in the oven and you know exactly when to pull it out.
ET Now: Do you bake a cake or you do not like to bake a cake?
Chirag Setalvad: No, I do not.
I think all the ingredients are in place and the interesting thing about markets is that it is not clear when and how long it will take for the cake to get ready.
ET Now: So for who is waiting on the table, how much more should they wait for the cake?
Chirag Setalvad : In my mind, people that are investing in equity market should have a minimum of three to five years investment horizon.
Anything shorter than that is not suited for equities.
So that kind of horizon is reasonable and from here on, three to five years later, I suspect investors will do quite well.
ET Now: At a time when interest rates are coming down and since equity return at the end of the day is a premium to the average rate of return, they are premium to the underlying interest rate.
So if interest rates are coming down, do you think the equity returns now in future will also come down?
Chirag Setalvad: When you look at it from an extended time horizon, a 10-year perspective, those rates of return tend to be quite stable.
So longer term investors tend to make 15-17 per cent type of returns.
But in 2-3 years, obviously in one-year buckets, returns are very volatility.
We have seen the market giving a 300 per cent return and a minus 60 per cent return since the inception of market.
So one-year returns are obviously very volatility.
But when you look at two to three year buckets, I think from standpoint next couple of years should do reasonably well because earning should pick up.
Now will it pick up in the second quarter, the third quarter or the fourth quarter, it is difficult to time that but I think the environment is positive.
Earnings growth should pick up to bring the averages back to a more reasonable level.
Last few years have been at single digits.
In the next couple of years barring the next six months, growth will come back reasonably strongly and their capacity utilisation is also tightening.
So the advantage and disadvantage within India is in building capacity.