Indian tourists who had purchased travelinsurance policies for their Europe tours have started applying for 'trip curtailment claims'.
This is because several flights to Brussels had to be cancelled as the airport suspended operations post the terror attacks on March 22.
"We have received some claims from policyholders whose flight schedules were affected due to the attacks", said Nikhil Apte, chief product officer, product factory, Royal Sundaram.Other companies that are gearing up for these claims include ICICI Lombard and Bajaj Allianz.
"We have started sending out mails to our customers to explain the grounds on which they can file claims," said Suresh Sugathan, head, health and travel insurance, Bajaj Allianz.
Tata-AIG, ICICI Lombard and Bajaj Allianz are the top players in the outbound travel insurance space and estimated to collectively control 60% of the market share.
Travel insurance is compulsory for obtaining a Schengen visa, which covers 26 European countries, including Belgium.
The country figures on the itinerary of many multi-nation Europe group tours.
The Schengen segment is estimated to make up nearly 20%, or Rs 90cr - Rs 100 cr, of the Rs 500 cr outbound travel insurance business in India, according to data from Royal Sundaram.
A travel policy typically pays for medical expenses, emergency evacuation, trip cancellation, passport or baggage loss and repatriation of remains, among other things, even if caused by terror incidents.
Since only few Indians are directly affected by bomb blasts, most claims are likely to be in the nature of flight delay, trip cancellation, interruption and curtailment.
For instance, if your return flight to India from Brussels had had to be cancelled, you can file a claim under trip cancellation benefit.
"Those who have not yet travelled on their holiday to Brussels and cannot do so as a result of the incident can also lodge their trip cancellation claims," added Sugathan.
Any interruption or rescheduling, too, will be covered.
"Trip curtailment will cover situations like Belgium attacks, where several airlines cancelled their flights.
Customers can claim between $500 and $1000 as cancellation charges, higher charges for alternative flight tickets and so on," said Apte.
You can also claim reimbursement for travel insurance for differential amount paid for flight tickets as well as accommodation charges due to cancellations.
Since most expenses barring hospitalisation are covered on a reimbursement basis, ensure that you preserve all the relevant bills to make your claim.
Before initiating claim proceeds (and also before buying travel insurance in future), you need to study the terms of coverage and exclusions - expenses that will not be paid for - in the policy, as some insurers like Tata-AIG do not include terrorism in their coverage ambit.
And as of now, most policies also do not cover situations like delay in Visa issuance.
"Going forward, insurers will have to consider covering such situations arising out of terror attacks in a country, which ultimately affect your trip costs," said Apte.
Before initiating claim proceeds, you need to study the terms of coverage and exclusions in the policy.