Launching a scathing attack on the Modi government and Congress over the AgustaWestland chopper scam, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today said the Prime Minister does not have "enough courage" to arrest Sonia Gandhi and that the two parties have an "alliance in corruption".
Questioning the Congress on the issue of PM's alleged "fake" degree, Kejriwal also said that the two parties had a "setting" that the BJP government will not arrest Gandhi in chopper scam and the Congress will not raise the matter of Modi's educational qualification.
"The Italian Court order also has names of Sonia Gandhi, Ahmed Patel, certain officers and Congressmen, but Modi is not able to gather enough courage to arrest Sonia Gandhi, to ask her even two questions, to interrogate her...
"Modi ji you have been made PM to take action not to leave the task for Italy court...Our chest would also be of 56 inch if you would have sent her to jail...When my PM says that Italy's court is taking Gandhi's name not and not him....I want to ask Modiji why are you scared of her?"
Kejriwal said, addressing a rally at Jantar Mantar here.
Questioning the progress of the investigation in the chopper deal, Kejriwal alleged that there hasn't been an "inch" of movement on the probe, despite the Modi government coming to power on the assurances that the corrupt will be taken to task.
"What investigation did they do in AgustaWestland case in two years?
The Italian government completed investigation, filed the cases in court, judgment came and those who were involved in paying bribe were sent to jail."
"When Anna agitation started, people wanted to change the government...They knew that both Congress and BJP are two sides of the same coin, but Modi ji gave such wonderful speeches before Lok Sabha polls that people's hopes were build that corruption will end," Kejriwal said.
Noting that during the poll campaigns, Modi said that he will take action against Congress President's son-in-law Robert Vadra for alleged irregularities in the land deal, but despite being in power for two years, and having state governments in Haryana and Rajasthan, he (Vadra) hasn't been interrogated even once.
"Modi had said that the corrupt will be sent to jail.
It has been two years and not a single person has been sent to jail...The country has been cheated and hence we had to again gather against their 'alliance' four years after we had gathered at the same place to protest the corruption of these two parties," he said.