!
1 New Update Click here for latest updates
How Congress won
Former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat won the Assembly floor test after Centre revoked President's Rule, in what is being seen as a setback for BJP.
We have decided to recommend revocation of President's rule in Uttarakhand, to President: Venkaiah Naidu
Harish Rawat's supporters burst crackers in celebration of the floor test win
Centre to soon revoke President's rule in Uttarakhand
No irregularities found in the voting, 9 MLAs could not vote due to their disqualification: SC
Harish Rawat will assume office as CM after President's rule is revoked, says Supreme Court
Uttarakhand floor test: SC says no irregularities in carrying out of the trust vote & voting pattern
They did their worst.
We did our best.
Democracy won in Uttarakhand: Rahul Gandhi on Uttarakhand floor test
Uttarakhand floor test: Congress secures 33 votes, BJP gets 28
Supreme Court says Harish Rawat can take charge as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.
It's a fair decision, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Harish Rawat, tells SC
Centre to SC: Will revoke President's rule in Uttarakhand
AG to SC: Congress wins the Uttarakhand floor test
AG to SC: It has been proved Harish Rawat has got majority on the floor of house
Uttarakhand impasse: A timeline
Uttarakhand assembly floor test ends, Congress claims victoryNine rebel MLAs can't participate in Uttarakhand trust vote: SC
Former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat has won the Assembly floor test, AG Mukul Rohtagi told the Supreme Court.
He also told the court that the Centre will now revoke President's Rule in the state.
Key Events 12:56 PM Harish Rawat - 1, BJP - 0: 7 big developments in Uttarakhand
12:53 PM We have decided to recommend revocation of President's rule in Uttarakhand, to President: Venkaiah Naidu
12:29 PM Harish Rawat will assume office as CM after President's rule is revoked, says Supreme Court
12:24 PM Uttarakhand floor test: SC says no irregularities in carrying out of the trust vote & voting pattern
12:22 PM They did their worst.
We did our best.
Democracy won in Uttarakhand: Rahul Gandhi on Uttarakhand floor test
12:16 PM Supreme Court says Harish Rawat can take charge as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.
12:08 PM Centre to SC: Will revoke President's rule in Uttarakhand