By Prabha Raghavan & Kirtika Suneja , ET Bureau | 9 May, 2016, 02.13AM IST
The government is planning to put in place a model similar to the rupee payment mechanism with Iran.
NEW DELHI: India is looking for an Iran-like solution to defuse a payment crisis of $100 million with Venezuela.
Prodded by pharmaceutical exporters whose payments from Venezuelan companies have been stuck for more than a year, the government is planning to put in place a model similar to the rupee payment mechanism with Iran.
The economic crisis in Venezuela has hit Indian pharma exporters the most as this segment comprises over half of India's shipments to the South American country.
"Venezuela is in a crisis and has no money to pay us.
We plan to replicate the Iran mechanism but it will be nuanced based on the circumstances... Reserve Bank of India is working out the modalities," an official said, requesting not to be identified.
The official said the government is likely to entrust State Bank of India with facilitating the proposed mechanism.
India's exports to Venezuela fell sharply to $125.49 million in the first 11 months of 2015-16 from $258.07 million in the entire previous fiscal.
Pharma exports dropped to $71.32 million in April 2015-February 2016 from $143.55 million in 2014-15.
Imports from Venezuela were down as well, to $5.2 billion in April-February of 2015-16 from $11.7 billion in 2014-15.
India mainly imports crude oil and alloys of iron from Venezuela.
Venezuela has imposed price caps and currency controls in the wake of high inflation and erosion of its currency following a drop in price of crude oil, its main export item.
These controls have hurt its export partners, who are finding it difficult to receive payments.
The commerce department has proposed a model under which once the export documents presented by the pharma exporter get accepted by the Venezuelan importer, the latter's bank in Venezuela will send its approval through the Venezuelan Central Bank for debiting the vostro account with a domestic bank in India.
On receiving this authority, the Indian bank will debit the corresponding vostro account of the importer's bank and remit funds as stated in the debit authority.
Smaller pharma companies which export to Venezuela are among those affected.
For instance, Venezuelan importers owe Chennai-based Fourrts (India) Laboratories $90,000, according to owner SV Veeramani.
"We haven't received the money in the last one year now," he said.
"Compared with the previous year, purchases (by Venezuela) have come down more than 50%.
We (Fourrts) were doing $300,000 worth of exports in 2014-15.
In 2015-16, we could do only $13,000 because there is no purchase happening now," said Veeramani, who is also the president of the Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA), a lobby group for domestic pharmaceutical makers.
The mechanism is required since pharma is among the few sectors that have bucked the trend of fall in Indian exports for more than a year.
"From the Indian side we are ready to implement the mechanism but since money belongs to them (Venezuela), they have to give consent.
But the condition there is pretty bad," another official said.
"We have given them the logic that whatever remittances they get from sale of crude oil, should be saved for food and medicines since these are indispensable priority areas," he said.
Email