By CL Manoj , ET Bureau | 12 May, 2016, 02.48AM IST
At 93, ‘VS’ has defied conventional norms of ageing going by the energy and determination he displays while meeting the grinding demands of daily campaigning.
MALAMPUZHA: "Oommen Chandy's desperate survival tactics will fail miserably.
Narendra Modi's bid to play his Gujarat tricks will also be defeated by the people of Kerala.
The LDF will win a decisive victory," CPM veteran VS Achuthanandan told ET after the star campaigner took a brief lunch-break at his camp office in his Malampuzha constituency near Palakkad on a hot and humid Tuesday.
At 93, 'VS' has defied conventional norms of ageing going by the energy and determination he displays while meeting the grinding demands of daily campaigning, for over a month, all over Kerala and now in his own constituency.
VS's day began at 9 am.
He addressed five street meetings across Kodumbu Panchayat and a pubic rally at Para.
Accompanied by a small cavalcade of cars full of party functionaries and aides and a police van, he reached every meeting to be greeted by supporters: "Salutations to our revolutionary leader, the brave soldier of Punnapra-Vayalar uprising.
We shall make you victorious, comrade!
We shall march along with you."
VS responds with a salute and a wry smile while slipping into a chair on a make-shift podium.
After the UDF campaign that VS had neglected his constituency, local leaders at every meeting make it a point to reel out development work carried out in the constituency and the projects he got there.
VS sits through mostly with his eyes closed, making many wonder whether he was assleep or in deep thought.
His speeches last only a few minutes and the recurring theme was, "Narendra Modi government and Sangh Parivar treat Muslims as their enemy no.
1, Christians come next and Communists third.
While the Modi government and the Sangh Parivar want to divide society, the Communists want to strengthen democracy and secularism...On the other side, the Oommen Chandy government has looted the state, made women insecure....I seek your votes and support.
Salutations!"
As he gets up to leave, some members from the audience reach to greet him or just touch him.
Malampuzha has been a CPM citadel which has elected VS thrice in a row.
A local Congress leader said, "VS is safe in Malmpuzha provided there is no internal sabotage as it famously happened in Mararikulam in 1996."
The Congress rival in the constituency is another VS' — VS Joy — who heads the Congress students wing and nearly 70 years younger to the veteran.
The question is not whether VS will be elected but whether he will become the chief minister should LDF win.
The fact his arch-rival in the party, Pinarayi Vijayan, — who controls the party committees and whose ambition to become the CM is famous as VS' unabated desire — too is contesting the polls thickens the chief ministerial plot in LDF, with some saying CPM "is only using" VS' popularity to win the polls, whereas, some others insist the seasoned player in VS is still capable of spoiling Pinarayi's plots if he gets another opening to take a shot at the top post.
After the nap at his camp office, VS was ready by 3.30 pm to leave for the second session of campaigning.
When ET pointed out to VS that even Sitaram Yechury recently said he was aware of "the growing anxiety of the people" to know about VS's future role in a LDF government, he quipped, betraying caution, "the future role of all comrades will be decided through proper discussions in our party after elections.
This issue is being unnecessarily raked by the media and the bourgeoisie sections to create controversies.
It will not succeed."
However, the former chief minister is very clear on the thrust areas of a future LDF government.
"The LDF government will create jobs for the youth, better facilities for students and teachers, more welfare schemes for poorer sections, will be uncompromising in ensuring safety of women, will lay out programmes for the all-round development of the state and provide a clean administration."
When it comes to Chandy, VS characteristically seethes in his verbal assault: "The track-record of the Oommen Chandy government in corruption and misrule is unparalleled.
Under the UDF rule, there was criminal negligence on the safety of women.
Even days after the murder of Jisha, the culprits have not been arrested...Now Mr Chandy and Congress have entered into a secret deal with RSS-BJP."
After a quick round of greeting visitors, VS got into the car for another round of campaigning.
It didn't matter that it was the hotter part of the day.
Email