By ET Now | 9 May, 2016, 03.56PM IST
In a chat with ET Now , Rahul Shah, MOFSL, says if they continue to do well with the way the management is guiding, these could be dark horses going forward.
Edited excerpts ET Now: Your take on the current markets and do you think there is going to be some more consolidation in the market?
Should one trade with caution now that we are at 7800?
Rahul Shah: What we have seen is the highest open interest still stands at 7700 puts and the call writing we have seen at 8000 and 7900, we have seen lots of decent writing.
So near term the markets may be sideways to negative or may be it might consolidate between these levels of 7680 and 7850.
So I think that it will consolidate for some time and obviously the corporate results people will have a look at it and then we will see the bigger picture of the markets.
So if it breaks 7650 convincingly, then only we will see some kind of reversal in technical front...
ET Now: What would be your first wealth creation idea?
Rahul Shah: Emami is one of the results where the numbers were in line with street expectations in the FMCG pack.
These stocks have remained under pressure.
So obviously Emami has the skills.
They have given a 15 per cent plus guidance for FY17 and we have seen that whenever they have made acquisitions, they have done a good synergy between the existing brands versus the acquired brands.
SoKesh King, also with an EBITDA of 45 per cent, is ecpected to bring more synergy.
So I feel going forward, with the 16-17 per cent growth and good ROE and obviously the way the stock has performed in the last few years, it will continue to trade well.
Obviously, the valuations are expensive but it will continue with the growth volume.
When compared with its peers, Patanjali and other listed players, Emami obviously stands out.
in Now Patanjali is a threat not only for Emami but also for the entire industry.
I feel Emami will continue to grow and with this strategy also and an aggressive management it is well geared for the likes of Patanjali.
We can expect 30 per cent returns going forward.
So I would buy Emami at current levels.
ET Now: City Union Bank is your second wealth creation idea.
Why is it a preferred pick?
Rahul Shah: We like City Union Bank because of the way the stock has done and they way they have been performing the past few quarters.
If you look at reasonable valuations, price to book, which is trading at very well controlled NPAs at around 1.5 per cent and net NPA levels compared to other smaller banks.
Secondly the good ROE in spite of the dilution that they did in FY15.
Post that also, the decent ROE of 16-17 per cent which they have been able to deliver and also a lower exposure in the corporate sector (around 6-7 per cent) and the focus is again on the MSME segment as well as agri and the home loan segment.
So very well capitalised with a smaller bank, going forward if they continue to do well with the controlled NPA, this can be a dark horse in coming times.
Now compared to other banks, if you look at it, we had two smaller banks again getting listed in near term.
So if you compare with it and a newer bank also which is getting listed, we have seen that over the years, initially those banks has taken time to perform.
So, may be yes at initial levels or may be Kotak at the earlier stages or something and then they have delivered.
The management is aggressive but not at the cost of the asset quality and that is a very important thing to look at.
I feel at least 30 per cent is easily achievable and obviously if they continue to do well with the way the management is guiding, I think it could be a dark horse going forward as well.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email