The government is presently running an online and SMS poll till May 14 to get the public to vote for these 25 shortlisted women out of 1000 entries received by them.
The government is presently running an online and SMS poll till May 14 to get the public to vote for these 25 shortlisted women out of 1000 entries received by them.
NEW DELHI: A University Director in Chennai who gives scholarship to 10 acid attack victims and free coaching to 400 IAS aspirants every year, a journalist and a diplomat who broke stereotypes to open a women-led thinktank, and a BPO owner in Bengaluru who employs disabled people - women like these feature in a shortlist of 25 from whom the government will soon choose the most motivating example of 'Women Transforming India', as per an idea mooted by PM Narendra Modi and the contest being launched on International Women's Day in March.
The government is presently running an online and SMS poll till May 14 to get the public to vote for these 25 shortlisted women out of the 1000s of entries received by them.
"The results of the poll and all 25 entries will be placed before a special jury constituted by the NITI Aayog which will select the final winning entry," a senior government official told ET.
In the poll so far, Director of the Sathyabama University in Chennai, Dr Mariazeena Johnson, West Bengal textile entrepreneur Dipali Pramanik and Bengaluru-based BPO owner Pavithra have got the highest votes.
The main criteria for the government is such life stories which reflect new ground broken by women in empowering themselves or others or of challenging stereotypes in India .
Johnson's profile says she runs a inclusive university by giving opportunity to differently asked students to pursue course free of cost and gives full scholarship for 10 acid attack victims every year to our pursue their higher education.
She has also adopted 7 panchayat schools, 2 villages and provides life time support to 40 NGOs while preparing 400 students every year for UPSC exam by free coaching.
30-year old Pavithra founded Vindhya, a Bengaluru-based BPO in 2006 and is said to be India's only for-profit organisation that employs disabled people as its majority workforce.
She brings together physically challenged and hearing impaired/visually impaired employees as well as borderline case of autism to her workforce and also employs members of transgender community -- there are 1300 employees in all.
In 2016, she had got the 'Top 100 Women Achievers in India' award from President Pranab Mukherjee .
Two other short-listed women getting lot of votes in the ongoing poll are veteran diplomat Neelam Deo and former journalist Manjeet Kripalani who founded a independent think-tank, Gateway House in 2009.
They have made a case that they have broken stereotypes that only men do business and that only men can think strategically.
Textile entrepreneur Dipali Paramik meanwhile employs 38 illiterate and semi-literate women in a tailoring business which now has a turnover of Rs 26 lakh and her products have made a mark in international textile markets with buyers from UK, USA and Italy being aware of her project.
Email