Abiola Dauda's fifth goal of the season is enough to seal victory for Hearts against Aberdeen at Pittodrie.
Match ends, Aberdeen 0, Heart of Midlothian 1.
Attempt saved.
Alim Ozturk (Heart of Midlothian) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Second Half ends, Aberdeen 0, Heart of Midlothian 1.
Foul by Andrew Considine (Aberdeen).
Gavin Reilly (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Heart of Midlothian.
Jordan McGhee replaces Juanma.
Attempt blocked.
Kenny McLean (Aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Foul by Ryan Jack (Aberdeen).
John Souttar (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Aberdeen.
Conceded by Juwon Oshaniwa.
Attempt blocked.
Andrew Considine (Aberdeen) header from the centre of the box is blocked.
Corner, Aberdeen.
Conceded by Callum Paterson.
Graeme Shinnie (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Callum Paterson (Heart of Midlothian).
Graeme Shinnie (Aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Prince Buaben (Heart of Midlothian).
Substitution, Aberdeen.
Joe Nuttall replaces Willo Flood.
Attempt missed.
Callum Paterson (Heart of Midlothian) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Substitution, Heart of Midlothian.
Gavin Reilly replaces Abiola Dauda.
Kenny McLean (Aberdeen) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Perry Kitchen (Heart of Midlothian).
Juanma (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Cameron Smith (Aberdeen).
Substitution, Aberdeen.
Cameron Smith replaces Scott McKenna.
Kenny McLean (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Alim Ozturk (Heart of Midlothian).
Substitution, Heart of Midlothian.
Sam Nicholson replaces Dario Zanatta.
Attempt missed.
Niall McGinn (Aberdeen) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Goal!
Aberdeen 0, Heart of Midlothian 1.
Abiola Dauda (Heart of Midlothian) right footed shot from very close range to the bottom right corner.
Ryan Jack (Aberdeen) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Ryan Jack (Aberdeen).
Perry Kitchen (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Hand ball by Willo Flood (Aberdeen).
Attempt missed.
Niall McGinn (Aberdeen) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Corner, Aberdeen.
Conceded by Arnaud Djoum.
Attempt blocked.
Jonny Hayes (Aberdeen) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Andrew Considine (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Callum Paterson (Heart of Midlothian).
Foul by Scott McKenna (Aberdeen).
Abiola Dauda (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.