Brought to the Indian Squash Academy in 2009 by his mom as “a really fat 10-year-old boy”, to, possibly, divert him from getting addicted to the telly, Adhitya Raghavan has now developed into being one of the brightest and, perhaps, fittest, among the hopefuls.
The reigning National u-17 champion has moved out of the age group and is now competing for the first time in the u-19 section (ranked 11 in the country) against the likes of Velavan Senthilkumar and Ranjit Singh in the ongoing ISA junior Open.
The 17-year-old, seeded fourth, is cheering younger brother Shreeman (u-15 player) in one of the outside courts of ISA on Wednesday.
He is confident of his own chances in the tournament.
“My first target is to reach the final.
I am not overconfident when I say that.
I think I can beat my semifinal opponent which could be either Ranjit Singh or Vikas Mehra,” he says, while admitting that Velavan would be the favourite for the crown.
Adhitya has loftier ambitions.
The first is to end the domination of Egyptians.
“Because they are Egyptians, it plays on our mind.
This is due to their brand value.
I would not say that they are over-rated.
I think their domination will not last for long,” he assures.
More than the Scottish Open u-11 final in ’09 and the u-15 French Open title in Lille in ’13, Adhitya rates the British junior u-15 tournament in Sheffield in ’14, where he reached the semifinals, as more creditworthy.
“The British Open is equal to Worlds in some ways,” explains the youngster.
“For u-19, there is only Worlds but for the rest of the categories, what you do in British Open is generally the yardstick to judge your performance.”
Recalling the tournament, Adhitya says: “It was a close semifinal that I lost.
I was an unseeded player when I beat the third seed Marwan Tarek of Egypt in the pre-quarterfinals.”
Do well in selection trials For Adhitya, doing well in the selection trials of the World juniors and Asian championships would be a priority.
“If I get selected, I can take part in international tournaments.
It will be a good start,” he says.
Adhitya credits his rise to Maj. S. Maniam, Squash Rackets Federation of India’s consultant coach.
“He is like a mentor to me.
Apart from squash, there’s so much I’ve picked up from him.
National coach Cyrus Poncha, coaches like Balamurugam and others have fine-tuned my game.
I am grateful to all of them,” he says.
Maniam, who has seen Adhitya as a chubby boy reluctant to put in the hard yards, says he is one of the hardest working boys at ISA.
“By sheer hardwork, Adhitya has become consistent.
He eats and breathes squash,” says the Malaysian.
According to Maniam, Adhitya’s short-term goal would be to do well in the World juniors in Bielsko-Biala, Poland (Aug. 6 to 17) and the Asian individual championships in Malaysia (Sept. 20-24).
From a fat boy to one of the fittest in his age group, it has been a journey worth all the effort and sweat for Adhitya.
Adhitya Raghavan..going places.
Photo: M. Vedhan