As per a report published in Mumbai Mirror, a furious Zinta, the co-owner of KXIP franchise, was too miffed with head coach Sanjay Bangar's decision making during the match played in Mohali .
Preity Zinta is co-owner of KXIP
Following her side's disappointing loss, a visibly annoyed Preity Zinta arrived in the dug-out and abused Bangar in front of players and support staff.
As per Mumbai Mirror, both Preity and Bangar denied the incident on Wednesday.
However, the same was independently confirmed to this newspaper by four witnesses who were present in the dug-out.
None of them, for obvious reasons, were willing to be quoted.
Sources said Preity took exception to Bangar's decision to send Farhaan Behardien ahead of Axar Patel and blamed the coach for the team's loss, the report added further.
A source who was witness to the incident was quoted as saying, "It was a long monologue with a four-letter being used liberally.
Everybody was stunned as Preity repeatedly threatened to sack Sanjay.
Nobody spoke a word.
Sanjay cut a sorry figure which was sad because he was surrounded by young players and support staff he is supposed to lead.
It was rather unbecoming of the team owner."
Meanwhile, both Bangar and Zinta rubbished the rumours doing the rounds in the media.
Bangar wrote on his Facebook page that no such thing happened after the match.
"Some reports in the media have blown the issue totally out of proportion by fabricating a non existent chain of events..loss by close margin hurts but team has been playing good cricket.
No reported abusive or disrespectful language was against me," Bangar wrote.
Preity Zinta too shared Bangar's Facebook post on Twitter to quash the rumours.
A valiant effort from Murali Vijay went in vain as Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) sneaked past Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) by 1 run in the nail-biting encounter.
Chasing 176, Vijay led from the front with a brilliant 57-ball 89 supported by an unbeaten 34 from Marcus Stoinis, only to his team to fall short by a run.
Kings XI Punjab, who were the finalists in the previous edition of the tournament, are languishing at the bottom of the table this year.
The Punjab side won just 3 off their 10 matches played so far.