Match ends, Barcelona 5, Espanyol 0.
Second Half ends, Barcelona 5, Espanyol 0.
Attempt missed.
Víctor Sánchez (Espanyol) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high from a direct free kick.
Foul by Dani Alves (Barcelona).
Marco Asensio (Espanyol) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Rafinha (Barcelona).
Paco Montañés (Espanyol) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Javier Mascherano (Barcelona) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Javier Mascherano (Barcelona).
Marco Asensio (Espanyol) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Neymar (Barcelona) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Rober Correa (Espanyol).
Corner, Barcelona.
Conceded by Enzo Roco.
Neymar (Barcelona) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Rober Correa (Espanyol).
Attempt missed.
Lionel Messi (Barcelona) left footed shot from the left side of the box misses to the right.
Assisted by Neymar.
Gerard Moreno (Espanyol) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Goal!
Barcelona 5, Espanyol 0.
Neymar (Barcelona) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner.
Assisted by Luis Suárez.
Foul by Sergio Busquets (Barcelona).
Pape Diop (Espanyol) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Lionel Messi (Barcelona) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Víctor Sánchez (Espanyol).
Foul by Sergio Busquets (Barcelona).
Víctor Álvarez (Espanyol) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Lionel Messi (Barcelona) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Víctor Álvarez (Espanyol).
Sergio Busquets (Barcelona) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Gerard Moreno (Espanyol).
Foul by Javier Mascherano (Barcelona).
Gerard Moreno (Espanyol) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Goal!
Barcelona 4, Espanyol 0.
Rafinha (Barcelona) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal.
Substitution, Barcelona.
Rafinha replaces Ivan Rakitic.
Substitution, Barcelona.
Arda Turan replaces Andrés Iniesta.
Neymar (Barcelona) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Marco Asensio (Espanyol).
Substitution, Espanyol.
Paco Montañés replaces José Cañas.
Foul by Ivan Rakitic (Barcelona).
Rubén Duarte (Espanyol) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Barcelona.
Jeremy Mathieu replaces Jordi Alba.
Rober Correa (Espanyol) is shown the yellow card.