: Atletico Madrid reached the Champions League final on away goals on Tuesday after a 2-1 defeat at Bayern Munich, in which both sides missed a penalty, with the exhilarating tie finishing 2-2 on aggregate.
Bayern’s exit ended its hopes of claiming a treble with Atletico going through to the final at the San Siro in Milan after winning the first-leg 1-0 last week.
The Bavarians went ahead with a Xabi Alonso free kick just past the half-hour and could have scored again three minutes later, but Thomas Muller’s penalty was saved by Jan Oblak.
Atletico levelled through Frenchman Antoine Griezmann’s seventh goal of this season’s competition in the 54th.
Bayern’s Poland striker Robert Lewandowski set up a dramatic finale with his 74th minute goal before Atletico’s Fernando Torres had an 85th minute spot kick saved by Manuel Neuer.
But it made no difference in the end as Bayern suffered a third straight elimination by a Spanish team at this stage in its three seasons under Pep Guardiola.
“They were better, but we scored an away goal, which was important,” said Griezmann, whose side is level on points with leader Barcelona in the Spanish title race.
“That is football.
You can play better and still be eliminated,” said Guardiola after Bayern’s loss.
Guardiola, in his final Champions League home game at Bayern before his move to Manchester City for next season, started with defender Jerome Boateng, back from a three-month injury break on Saturday, and Franck Ribery, himself back from injury.
With a newly-discovered intensity, the Bavarians were dominant in the first half, successfully navigating through the Spaniards’ high pressing game and grabbing their first chance with a Lewandowski header in the 12th minute.
Atletico keeper Oblak was kept busy in the first half, with the tables turned and Bayern doing the pressing — having 12 shots compared to Atletico’s two by the half hour.
Alonso finally got the host a deserved lead in the 31st minute, his low free-kick clipping Jose Maria Gimenez to cancel out Atletico’s first-leg advantage.
Lewandowski put Bayern back in front on the night with a close-range header to spark a dramatic finale but it could not find another goal and its Champions League hopes was over.
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.