Former world champion Joe Calzaghe is returning to boxing as a manager, seven years after his retirement as a fighter.
Joe Calzaghe's last fight was at Madison Square Garden against Roy Jones Jr in 2008Joe Calzaghe is returning to boxing as a manager, seven years after his retirement as a fighter.
Calzaghe has already secured his professional managers' licence and has held preliminary talks with prospective fighters and promoters.
He told BBC Wales Sport: "Managing is something that I will be good at."
BBC Wales Sport can reveal Calzaghe has been plotting a comeback to the sport for months, and has been doing occasional training sessions with young amateur fighters in south Wales.
Calzaghe will now look to build up a stable of fighters and wants to work with promoters and trainers, having explained he has no interest in doing either role.
Boxing promoter Eddie Hearn (left) says he wants to sign Olympic-bound Welsh amateur boxer Joe CordinaAnd he believes his experiences in the sport, having been a world champion for over a decade, will be ideally suited to a career as a manager.
"Promoting is a no-no - that's hard work.
Training is a full-time job, but I don't have time to do that full-time," he said.
"But I was self-managed for a lot of my career as well so I know both sides.
That will be perfect for me.
"I feel I can offer fighters a lot of experience.
"You need a manager in boxing who is thinking about the fighters and what is best for their career.
Sometimes if you are managed by your promoter, it can lead to a conflict of interest.
"I miss boxing and in terms of finding a role back within the sport, this feels like a natural progression."
It is understood Calzaghe has already held informal talks with Matchroom promoter Eddie Hearn about a potential working relationship.
Matchroom are keeping a close eye on Welsh boxing after confirming to BBC Wales Sport that Hearn is hopeful of signing Welshman Joe Cordina after this summer's Olympic Games.
Joe Cordina (right) has been tipped to win gold in Rio at the Olympics by promoter Eddie HearnHearn is the UK promoter for Welsh world champion Lee Selby and also promotes Wales' former WBO light heavyweight champion Nathan Cleverly.
He has tipped Cordina, a 24-year-old lightweight, to win a gold medal.
"I think the one that has probably impressed me the most would be Cordina," said Hearn.
"Of all the amateurs, I would back him to win gold.
I think a lot of the other guys can as well, but Cordina has just kept improving.
"I watched Cordina once at York Hall in a trial event about four years ago.
I said then he was a great fighter and I was right."