New Delhi, May 10: South Africa's T20 skipper Faf du Plessis , who was ruled out of the remainder of the Indian Premier League (IPL) due to injury, is all praise for MS India's limited overs' captain MS Dhoni and said he learnt a lot under him.
Talking about Captain Cool, du Plessis said that he (Dhoni) has a knack of getting the best from a player which was the biggest reason for CSK's success in the IPL.
As per a report published in Firstpost , the South African was quoted as saying, "I have been very fortunate to play under MS, which has also helped me as a captain.
I found that there is a lot to learn as a young captain from the combination of (Stephen) Fleming and Dhoni.
When I started at Chennai (CSK), I was still a young captain.
I suppose you could see what is working for them and try and implement that in your own style.
After playing under him, I know Dhoni's strength is getting the best out of Indian players.
"Dhoni is the guy who can get the best out of an inexperienced player, one who is yet to do well.
We have seen that in the past, there have been a lot of guys who have reached the top under his leadership.
In terms of him as a personality or as a captain, he is actually very quiet, a very quiet leader.
I suppose his leadership is mostly done out of instinct, he is not someone who believes in a lot of planning.
He relies on his cricket brain.
"He has been a real good captain for India, the amount of trophies that he has won speaks for itself.
It is nice for players like us to try and learn from him in small ways about what it is like to get the best out of lots of different players," the middle-order batsman further added.
After recovering from his injury, du Plessis will be in the Caribbean where he'll first play for his country and later captain the St Kitts & Nevis Patriots in the Caribbean Premier League (CPL).
Earlier in 2014, former New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum, who untill last year played for CSK, too praised MSD and said MSD is the sole leader of the pack.
"At CSK there is only one captain and that is MS Dhoni.
He is the sole decision-maker when it comes to the on-field matters.
There is not much team talk about that," McCullum was quoted when asked about his role in the team alongside other international captains in Dhoni, Faf du Plessis of South Afria and Dwayne Bravo of the West Indies.
Story first published: Tuesday, May 10, 2016, 17:23 [IST]