Chennai City FC (CCFC) survived a late scare from Arrows to win 5-3 in the St. Joseph’s-Chennai Football Association senior division league match here on Thursday.
With the victory, CCFC has jumped to joint second spot with Viva Chennai on 18 points from nine matches.
Viva Chennai though, has played one match less.
Arrows, on the other hand, is still very much in the relegation zone with four points from nine matches.
Leading 3-1 at half-time and 4-1 with hardly 18 minutes for the final whistle, Ghanefoans Sumanakromah of Arrows struck twice in quick succession to put CCFC on the back-foot.
However, Soosairaj ensured the team received no further hiccups, with a thundering right-footer during the added time.
Morgan Justice of CCFC emerged the star of the match with two goals and an equal number of assists.
Arrows went ahead through an own goal by Shahabaz Alam who deflected a cross from the left by Aron Suresh in the 26th minute.
CCFC equalised through Morgan whose half-volley shot off an indirect kick by Regin gave little chance to the goalkeeper.
CCFC had more ball possession and was itching to score.
And it came in the 40th minute when Dinesh Bhacat committed a handball, and the resultant penalty was converted by Morgan.
In a strange instance, Morgan was given a yellow card when he was fouled by Bharath Kumar and it came as a bigger surprise when the referee flashed the yellow on Morgan for arguing with him!
At the stroke of half-time, Samuel Jackson scored off a header off a cross from Morgan.
CCFC made it 4-1 when Jackson struck again off a fine pass from Morgan.
Sumanakromah of Arrows created jitters in CCFC camp with two goals in quick succession.
First, with his right-foot and then with a chipped shot.
However, Soosai Raj, who has been struggling with his form for a long time, scored after he was left unmarked.
E. Sugumaran, Secretary, CFA, said its executive committee will meet on May 15.
Senior div.
: Chennai City FC 5 (Morgan Justice 31 & 40, Samuel Jackson 45+1 & 64, Soosai Raj 90+2 min) bt Arrows 3 (Aron Suresh 26, Ghanefoans Sumanakromah 73 & 76).
First div.
: SAI 1 (Ramarajan 43) bt YMSC 0.
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.