Match ends, Norwich City 4, Watford 2.
Second Half ends, Norwich City 4, Watford 2.
Attempt blocked.
Gary O'Neil (Norwich City) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Martin Olsson (Norwich City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Craig Cathcart (Watford).
Attempt saved.
Troy Deeney (Watford) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Assisted by Adlène Guédioura.
Attempt missed.
Matthew Jarvis (Norwich City) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left misses to the left.
Assisted by Graham Dorrans.
Attempt blocked.
Troy Deeney (Watford) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Assisted by Nathan Aké.
Attempt missed.
Vadis Odjidja-Ofoe (Norwich City) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Assisted by Matthew Jarvis.
Attempt blocked.
Troy Deeney (Watford) header from the left side of the six yard box is blocked.
Assisted by Steven Berghuis with a cross.
Attempt missed.
Adlène Guédioura (Watford) right footed shot from outside the box is too high from a direct free kick.
Foul by Russell Martin (Norwich City).
Almen Abdi (Watford) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Gary O'Neil (Norwich City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Troy Deeney (Watford).
Vadis Odjidja-Ofoe (Norwich City) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Vadis Odjidja-Ofoe (Norwich City).
Steven Berghuis (Watford) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Delay over.
They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Dieumerci Mbokani (Norwich City) because of an injury.
Nathan Aké (Watford) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Dieumerci Mbokani (Norwich City) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Nathan Aké (Watford).
Substitution, Norwich City.
Vadis Odjidja-Ofoe replaces Steven Naismith.
Foul by Steven Naismith (Norwich City).
Adlène Guédioura (Watford) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Norwich City.
Matthew Jarvis replaces Nathan Redmond.
Attempt saved.
Almen Abdi (Watford) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Attempt blocked.
Steven Berghuis (Watford) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.
Assisted by Almen Abdi.
Attempt blocked.
Dieumerci Mbokani (Norwich City) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Offside, Watford.
Adlène Guédioura tries a through ball, but Odion Ighalo is caught offside.
Substitution, Watford.
Adlène Guédioura replaces Ben Watson.
Substitution, Norwich City.
Robbie Brady replaces Wes Hoolahan.
Offside, Watford.
Miguel Britos tries a through ball, but Troy Deeney is caught offside.
Gary O'Neil (Norwich City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ben Watson (Watford).
Hand ball by Steven Berghuis (Watford).
Foul by Wes Hoolahan (Norwich City).
Heurelho Gomes (Watford) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Norwich City.
Conceded by Ikechi Anya.
Ben Watson (Watford) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Steven Naismith (Norwich City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ben Watson (Watford).
Attempt missed.
Wes Hoolahan (Norwich City) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Assisted by Graham Dorrans.
Attempt missed.
Almen Abdi (Watford) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Assisted by Steven Berghuis.
Offside, Norwich City.
Martin Olsson tries a through ball, but Dieumerci Mbokani is caught offside.
Foul by Gary O'Neil (Norwich City).
Odion Ighalo (Watford) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Norwich City 4, Watford 2.
Dieumerci Mbokani (Norwich City) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal.
Assisted by Nathan Redmond with a through ball.
Ryan Bennett (Norwich City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Odion Ighalo (Watford).
Attempt blocked.
Wes Hoolahan (Norwich City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Assisted by Nathan Redmond.
Substitution, Watford.
Steven Berghuis replaces Jurado.
Ivo Pinto (Norwich City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jurado (Watford).
Offside, Norwich City.
Ivo Pinto tries a through ball, but Dieumerci Mbokani is caught offside.
Norwich City 3, Watford 2.
Odion Ighalo (Watford) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal.
Assisted by Troy Deeney with a cross.
Attempt saved.
Jurado (Watford) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Assisted by Nathan Aké.
Ryan Bennett (Norwich City) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Ryan Bennett (Norwich City).
Odion Ighalo (Watford) wins a free kick in the attacking half.