Thank you, Tony Cozier, for all those mornings and evenings of cricket on the radio.
Tony Cozier, who died in Barbados on Wednesday, was not merely the voice of West Indies cricket, especially to those who learned to love the game over radio, and not television.
For them, he was the one who painted beautiful pictures of cricket just with his voice.
It was only accidental that he was a West Indian.
He was one of those great commentators who made you fall in love with this most fascinating game; who made you dedicate evenings of the cricket season in England and the mornings of that in Australia, to radio.
Growing up in a hill town of northern Kerala in the 1980s, you never knew how Michael Holding or Gus Logie looked like until you saw their pictures in Sportstar magazine or on the sports pages of The Hindu.
Yet, you saw Holding completing his beautiful bowling action or the diminutive Logie playing a gritty knock or taking a great catch at short leg, with men like Cozier describing vividly those moments.
Whenever the West Indies toured England or Australia, Cozier joined the commentary teams of the BBC, or the Australian Broadcasting Commission.
Back in the 1980s and 90s, you could listen uninterrupted to ball-by-ball commentary on all the Test matches and the One Day Internationals in India too, through the BBC and Radio Australia.
Both the BBC and the ABC used to boast legendary voices in their commentary boxes.
If John Arlott, Brian Johnston, Don Mosey, Christopher Martin-Jenkins and Henry Blofeld were at Lord’s and Leeds, Alan McGilvray and Jim Maxwell were at Melbourne and Sydney.
Cozier made those great commentary teams greater with his presence.
He had a most distinctive style, a lovely voice, a deep knowledge about and undying passion for the game.
He was so passionate that you could easily see how disappointed he was with the decline in West Indies cricket.
Remember, he had seen the heydays of West Indies that had players like Garry Sobers, Viv Richards, Clive Lloyd, Gordon Greenidge, Jeff Dujon, Malcolm Marshall, Andy Roberts, Michael Holding and Joel Garner.
For many, the memories about these legendary cricketers would be mostly in sound than images; for they all played most of their cricket before the advent of non-stop television coverage.
I did not see live on television the greatest moment in history for Indian sport.
But, I listened, on the white-and-blue Nelco transistor at our home in Wayanad, to Chris Martin-Jenkins describing Mohindar Amarnath trapping Michael Holding lbw on the night of June 25, 1983.
The joy that commentators like Martin-Jenkins, who died three years ago, and Cozier to cricket fans around the globe cannot be fathomed.
Cozier had fans in the commentary box, too.
I recall Suresh Saraiya, one of the better commentators in English on All India Radio, once sacrificing, in his own words, his turn so that listeners could enjoy Cozier instead during a Test match between India and the West Indies.
The AIR never had the tradition of inviting the commentator from the visiting to country.
Saraiya, one felt, was clearly influenced by the style of Cozier.
Cozier may have become even more popular after he began doing television commentary, too.
He was mighty good on television, as well.
In fact, no commentator could be as at home both on radio and television as him.
Thank you, Tony Cozier, for all those mornings and evenings of cricket on the radio.