Team news as Harlequins face Montpellier in Friday's European Challenge Cup final at the Grand Stade de Lyon (20:00 BST).
Conor O'Shea is looking to win a fourth trophy in his last match as Harlequins boss, while Jake White could add a European title to his World Cup triumph with South AfricaEuropean Challenge Cup final Venue: Grand Stade de Lyon Date: Friday, 13 May Kick-off: 20:00 BST Coverage: Radio commentary on BBC Radio London (FM frequency), BBC Radio 5 live sports extra and via the BBC Sport website and app, plus live text commentary online
Harlequins welcome back Joe Marler from suspension as they bid to win their fourth European Challenge Cup title in Conor O'Shea's final game in charge.
Prop Marler, 25, returns from a two-week ban as Quins make eight changes to the side heavily beaten by Exeter.
Former Wales and British & Irish Lions prop Adam Jones and Australia lock James Horwill return to the pack.
World Cup-winning coach Jake White leads Top 14 side Montpellier in their first European final.
The French club include Bismark Du Plessis, Jannie Du Plessis and Francois Steyn, who were all part of the South Africa side which won the 2007 World Cup.
The two sides met twice in the pool stages of the competition, with the south-west London side winning 41-18 at The Stoop before losing 42-9 in the south of France.
Harlequins have been victorious in their three previous appearances in the final of the competition, in 2001, 2004 and 2011, with all three wins coming against French opposition.
Quins finished seventh in the Premiership table, while Montpellier sit second in the French Top 14.
The English side will qualify for next season's European Champions Cup if they win but if Montpellier are victorious and also qualify for the tournament via their league position, the place in Europe's top-tier competition will go to the place finishing seventh in the Top 14.
Harlequins fly-half Nick Evans told BBC Radio London: "We've played them a couple of times and we know exactly what is coming.
"They are not typically French as they have a South African influence involved, so they'll have a big set-piece.
"We will still play our game and are not frightened to take risks.
If you sit back in these types of games it can get away from you.
"Montpellier will have time on the ball and momentum but we need to make sure we hang on."
Montpellier head coach Jake White: "Even though I have won a World Cup, winning the Challenge Cup is still a progression for me.
"It is another opportunity for me to make sure that the players understand the pressure and learn to play under pressure.
"Harlequins have won this competition three times, each time against a French team, often winning at the last minute.
I know we will have to play a full 80 minutes, and the bench will have to perform."
Harlequins: Brown; Yarde, Lowe, Roberts, Visser; Evans, Care (capt); Marler, Gray, Jones, Horwill, Twomey, Robshaw, Wallace, Easter.
Replacements: Ward, Lambert, Sinckler, Luamanu, Clifford, Dickson, Botica, Chisholm.
Montpellier: Fall; Nagusa, Tuitavake, Steyn, O'Connor; Catrakilis, White; Nariashvili, B.
Du Plessis, Jannie Du Plessis, Jacques Du Plessis, Willemse, Ouedraogo (capt), Qera, Spies.
Replacements: Ivaldi, Watremez, Kubriashvili, Timani, Galletier, Paillaugue, Ebersohn, Mogg.
Referee: John Lacey (Ireland)