1, 6, 23, 13 (India)8, 6, 2 (Sunrisers Hyderabad)
This was Shikhar Dhawan's form coming into the Indian Premier League 2016 match against Gujarat Lions in Rajkot on April 21.
He had been dropped for Ajinkya Rahane for the World T20 semifinal after the run of poor scores.
While he faced no such danger in the Sunrisers team, a big question mark hung over how effective he will turn out for his side this year.
The Sunrisers had had David Warner leading from the front with some superb performances with the bat, but Dhawan's lack of form was a massive concern.
Needing to chase down a sub-par 136 to win the game, and with a marauding David Warner for company, Dhawan slowly played himself back to form.
By the time, Warner had raced away to his fifty, Dhawan had gotten himself to a run-a-ball 13 - his highest score of the IPL season by five runs.
Soon after, the left-hander came into his own and by the time the match was done, he had scored 53 off 41.
That was 40 off his next 28 balls.
During the same period, Warner scored 24 off 19.
Dhawan believes a change in approach helped him stem the rot and find himself back amongst the runs.
The 30-year-old, a naturally attacking batsman, is now more content taking his time to settle down.
He feels the decision to not take risks early on in his innings helped him turn his form around.
"At times you have to adjust and hope.
I know I'm a naturally attacking player, and quick runs will automatically come to me if I get my eye in," he told Cricbuzz .
Since that fifty against Gujarat Lions, Dhawan's scores have been 45 (Kings XI Punjab), 56* (Rising Pune Supergiants), 11 (Royal Challengers Bangalore), 47* (Gujarat Lions) and 82* (Mumbai Indians).
Sunrisers's record in those five matches have been W L W W W.
"I feel... See, sometimes when a player goes through a lean patch, you have to curb your instincts.
Suppose I take lot of risks while batting, you try to cut down those risks," Dhawan added.
"And once I get into flow, automatically, I am the sort of player who will have the upperhand over the strike rate.
That's how my game is, no matter what stage in the game."
"If I fail in one or two games, then if I play one game where I have the opportunity to play myself in without hurting the team, and that innings can bring me back to form, that is a good thing for me and my side.
If you take those two innings I played (the 45 against Kings XI Punjab and 53 against Gujarat Lions), the situation, it was fine for me to play that kind of a game.
"So whenever, even if I've started off slowly, we've won those two games.
That's what we wanted as a team - to win the game," he said.
Dhawan's rise in form has been concomitant with Surisers's climb up the table.
After their win over Mumbai Indians on Sunday (May 8), they rose to top of the IPL table with 12 points from nine games.
They were toppled by Suresh Raina's Gujarat Lions a couple of hours later, but Sunrisers have played two games fewer.
"David Warner is playing good cricket at the moment.
He's scoring at a good strike-rate, and it's the most sensible thing for me to play the anchor role," the left-hander said.
"If we've set ourselves a target of getting X amount of runs in the first six over, and we've got that in the five overs itself, then it makes no sense to take risks.
We can play that over out easily."
"Suppose, Davey [Warner] gets out, then I'm the person who can take the aggressive role and be there for the team.
It can happen on a particular day that I can get off on an attacking note.
If you see from last year, when we played Mumbai Indians, I scored 45 runs in 20-odd balls, while Davey was only on 10-15 runs.
We both have that kind of a natural frame that we can allow for that to happen.
For our team, it's good that we are there at the crease for as long as possible."
Warner's terrific form this IPL has been one of the key aspects in Sunrisers Hyderabad's upward climb.
The Australian has also had to lead the side this term, and it's something he's impressed at, too, according to Dhawan.
"Davey is a very good captain.
He leads from the front and makes sure that the team performs.
Of course, every person has a different character.
MS Dhoni is experienced and has a cool head.
If you talk about Virat [Kohli], he's more aggressive.
Everyone comes with their own energy and Warner is also more of an aggressive person.
But, it depends on how everyone maintains the fine line in their respective roles.
They have their own stratergies."
He also sounded out a warning for the opposition bowlers and captains.
"I feel that I've got my touch back, and I want to keep performing more consistently.
I know what potential I have in me, and what I can do.
I want to bring out the full potential I have in me, that's what my goal is."
Despite the three early failures, Dhawan now sits at eighth on the run-scorers list with 310 runs at an average of 62.
If he does bring out the full potential in him, there'll be no stopping the Sunrisers.
Ricky Ponting - I don't believe in coaching manuals
The redemption of Praveen Kumar - A return from the badlands
Virat Kohli's merry run and Shreyas Iyer's duck tales
Gujarat Lions top table with clinical win over KKR
Yuvraj's knock made a huge difference: Shikhar Dhawan
Kings XI Punjab gear up for Kohli test in bid to stay alive