Shillong Lajong FC scored the equaliser in extra-time to make it 2-2 in the return fixture and 4-3 on aggregate of its Federation Cup quarterfinal against East Bengal at the Vidyasagar Stadium here on Wednesday and thus progress to the semifinals.
Lajong had won its home fixture 2-1 and the regulation 90 minutes here saw East Bengal leading 2-1 forcing the action into extra-time before substitute Uilliams Silva of Brazil scored the equaliser in the 114th minute to settle the tie.
Lajong took the lead early in the first half through Brazilian forward Fabio Pena, who scored from a penalty.
East Bengal restored parity off the second penalty of the match which was netted by I-League top scorer Ranti Martins.
East Bengal then opened up the lead with a goal from Lalrindika Ralte.
Lajong will play the winner of the other quarterfinal between Mohun Bagan and Salgaocar SC, to be played at the same venue on Thursday.
East Bengal was surprised by the speed and youthfulness of Lajong, which had built its squad around a selection of under-22 boys.
Needing a 1-0 scoreline to ensure the semifinal berth, East Bengal’s defence failed in its objective when it conceded a penalty in the 16th minute.
Seasoned defender Deepak Mondal made the cardinal error of handling the ball inside his box when Lajong midfielder Bipin Singh essayed a cross on the East Bengal goalmouth.
East Bengal’s equaliser came soon after when a Do Dong Hyun attempt off a Deepak Mondal cross hit the hand of Nimdorjee Tamang inside the Lajong FC box for a penalty which was converted by Martins.
Continuing with the rebuilding process, East Bengal nudged ahead in the 36th minute off a finely coordinated move.
Deepak initiated the move running on the overlap and released Sanju Pradhan on the right.
The East Bengal midfielder found Hyun inside the box with a cross and the South Korean forward placed the ball for Lalrindika Ralte to finish.
The East Bengal midfielder’s beautiful curler from around 10 yards made it an outstanding goal in the end.
The change of ends seemed to the clip the momentum that made East Bengal dictate the proceedings in the first half.
The visitors, instead, earned three good opportunities to equalise.
Deepak Mondal made a fine save from the line in the 51st minute on an Isaac Vanmalswama effort to save the host before Uilliams Silva found his 53rd-minute header going off the upright.
East Bengal custodian T.P.
Rehenesh made a good save some time later to keep the lead intact but the host hardly did anything remarkable to enhance the lead.
The results: East Bengal 2 (Ranti Martins 23-pen, Lalrindika Ralte 36) drew with Shillong Lajong FC 2 (Fabio Pena 17-pen, Uilliams Silva 114).
Lajong goes through 4-3 on aggregate .
On Tuesday: At Bengaluru: BFC 2 (C.K.
Vineeth 29, Sunil Chhetri 74)lost to Aizawl FC 3 (Joel Sunday 26 & 39, David Lalrinmuana 50).
Aizawl goes through 5-3 on aggregate .
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.