Match ends, FC Ingolstadt 04 1, FC Bayern München 2.
Second Half ends, FC Ingolstadt 04 1, FC Bayern München 2.
Offside, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Marvin Matip tries a through ball, but Stefan Lex is caught offside.
Attempt missed.
Lukas Hinterseer (FC Ingolstadt 04) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right.
Assisted by Mathew Leckie.
Substitution, FC Bayern München.
Sebastian Rode replaces Thiago Alcántara.
Mathew Leckie (FC Ingolstadt 04) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Joshua Kimmich (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Mathew Leckie (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Foul by Douglas Costa (FC Bayern München).
Pascal Groß (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Thiago Alcántara (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Roger (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Foul by Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München).
Danny da Costa (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Philipp Lahm (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Alfredo Morales (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Stefan Lex (FC Ingolstadt 04) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Manuel Neuer (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Stefan Lex (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Substitution, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Stefan Lex replaces Darío Lezcano.
Douglas Costa (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Alfredo Morales (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München).
Roger (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt blocked.
Benjamin Hübner (FC Ingolstadt 04) header from the centre of the box is blocked.
Assisted by Pascal Groß with a cross.
Corner, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Conceded by Javi Martínez.
Substitution, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Lukas Hinterseer replaces Moritz Hartmann.
Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München).
Alfredo Morales (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed.
Markus Suttner (FC Ingolstadt 04) left footed shot from outside the box is too high following a corner.
Corner, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Conceded by Medhi Benatia.
Foul by Thiago Alcántara (FC Bayern München).
Benjamin Hübner (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Javi Martínez (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Pascal Groß (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Attempt missed.
Moritz Hartmann (FC Ingolstadt 04) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Assisted by Darío Lezcano.
Douglas Costa (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Danny da Costa (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Pascal Groß (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Attempt saved.
Joshua Kimmich (FC Bayern München) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Offside, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Marvin Matip tries a through ball, but Pascal Groß is caught offside.
Substitution, FC Ingolstadt 04.
Alfredo Morales replaces Almog Cohen.
Attempt saved.
Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Assisted by Thiago Alcántara.
Corner, FC Bayern München.
Conceded by Danny da Costa.
Douglas Costa (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Almog Cohen (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Joshua Kimmich (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Pascal Groß (FC Ingolstadt 04).
Attempt missed.
Douglas Costa (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right.
Assisted by Thomas Müller.
Substitution, FC Bayern München.
Rafinha replaces Franck Ribéry.
Attempt missed.
Franck Ribéry (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from the left side of the box is high and wide to the right.
Assisted by Joshua Kimmich.
Foul by Javi Martínez (FC Bayern München).
Mathew Leckie (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Franck Ribéry (FC Bayern München).
Danny da Costa (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Joshua Kimmich (FC Bayern München).
Moritz Hartmann (FC Ingolstadt 04) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Offside, FC Bayern München.
Franck Ribéry tries a through ball, but Robert Lewandowski is caught offside.