Vizag, Last updated on Monday, 09 May, 2016, 04:53 PM
"I think we've made improvements throughout the tournament," Fleming said.
© BCCI
With only three wins from ten games, Rising Pune Supergiants' campaign is all but over.
They not only need to win their remaining four matches, but also hope that other results go their way in order to stand a chance of making it to the playoffs.
Ahead of their home game in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday (May 10), Stephen Fleming, the coach of the struggling IPL debutants called it a 'frustrating journey', but remained hopeful of the team's chances of qualifying for the knockouts.
"It's been frustrating, we've had some challenges but in between that we are still competing in games we have had four last-over games which I think is important to note that we have been a little bit better and a little bit sharper in a couple of areas.
We could be sitting in a much healthier position, so the positive is, even with the injuries and the challenges we have had, we are still in the fight and that's with a lot of the top teams," Fleming told the media on the eve of the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad.
"I guess we are still quite clinging on to the fact that if we could put four games together and get across the line in a couple then we are an outside chance to get through to the semi-finals.
I have been in this situation before and got through, and I still believe we can have a go," he added.
Fleming, who put his team's current predicament down to the inability to click as a unit, said it was imperative that the players pull up their socks and play to full potential in order to stay in the reckoning.
"Bowling has been a challenge at times.
When the bowling's been good, our batting has been a little bit off.
If our batting has been good, then we've struggled to defend scores.
So, what we're looking for is to try and combine the two together.
The last game was a one-man band with Virat Kohli.
Apart from that, I thought we'd bowled very well.
"I think we've made improvements throughout the tournament.
And, barring a couple of injuries here and there, we've been reasonably consistent.
So if we can finish off the tournament well, then there's no reason as to why we can't potentially get four wins.
We've got to be as good as we can be.
We can't afford to with the team that we've got to be off colour in any department.
You've seen the games that we've lost.
We lost because we just came up short," Fleming said.
The last time Supergiants played against Sunrisers, they had registered a comfortable 34-run win (DLS method), thanks to the efforts of Ashok Dinda, Mitchell Marsh and Steven Smith.
In that game Mustafizur Rahman wasn't able to make much of an impact as Smith managed to handle him well, negating his cutters by targeting the leg side.
However, MS Dhoni's team will miss the Australian skipper's services in this fixture.
Fleming reckoned following Smith's tactics could be an option for his batsmen to combat the Bangladesh left-arm seamer, who the former New Zealand skipper earmarked as a threat.
"I have to first acknowledge he's [Mustafizur] very good, isn't he?
He's been a breath of fresh air with his skills that he's brought to the game.
If we're looking for positives, we look at the last game we played against Hyderabad - Steve Smith played him very well, he played him through the leg side.
I think the two options is for you to get right across and play him through the leg side or you stick away and play him through the off side.
But both are difficult and he's a bit of a sensation.
He's one of the threats that we have to combat tomorrow if we're going to win."
Apart from the four overseas players - Kevin Pietersen, Faf du Plessis, Mitchell Marsh and Steven Smith - who are ruled out of the tournament, Supergiants are grappling with more injury concerns.
Murugan Ashwin, who picked up a side strain, is still recovering from the injury, Fleming said, while also mentioning that skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni has some fitness issues, although he is unlikely to sit Tuesday's game out.
"No we're not fit," Fleming said, when asked if the injury woes of Pune have come to an end.
"There's a few injuries still to get through.
M Ashwin is still recovering, the skipper is a little bit sore, but hopefully he'll be fine.
These couple of other niggles, they continue.
"He's (Dhoni) got a sore back and he's had that for some time.
His hamstring is a little tight as well.
He's just working through those.
It's wear and tear, more than anything.
But he'll be fine," Fleming said.
Stoinis relishing IPL opportunity
So close yet so far for Stoinis and Co.
RCB overcome Vijay brilliance to clinch humdinger
KXIP vs RCB - As it happened
Ricky Ponting - I don't believe in coaching manuals
The redemption of Praveen Kumar - A return from the badlands
LATEST NEWS