KOLKATA KNIGHT RIDERS INNINGS
Over 3 || Score 17/2 (R Uthappa 10; S Yadav 2)
What an over from Praveen Kumar, the swing bowler.
He started with a well-planned, well-executed wicket of Gautam Gambhir.
A leg slip in place, he pitched it around leg, and Gambhir shuffled, as usual.
Unlucky for the batsman, onto the pads, and bowled.
WICKET: Gautam Gambhir b Praveen Kumar 5 (6b)
A dot ball, then the new man Manish Pandey failed to control his play, offering a gentle caught behind off a beautiful delivery, which pitched on the off and took off with a hint of swing.
Caught behind.
WICKET: Manish Pandey c Dinesh Karthik b Praveen Kumar 0 (2b)
Suryakumar Yadav, the new man, took three balls to took a double.
Over 2 || Score 15/0 (R Uthappa 10; G Gambhir 5)
Dhawal Kulkarni shared the new ball with Praveen Kumar.
The right arm fast medium bowler started with a single to Robin Uthappa.
It was followed by another single, then a dot ball to Uthappa — ball shaping away, and there's slip fielders.
Another similar delivery, and the same result.
Swing and miss.
But the fifth ball, intention was similar, as Kulkarni pitched the ball width off, but the length spoiled and Uthappa played a crunchy cover drive for a four.
Then, another one followed, this was more square.
Same results.
Good show.
10 runs from the over.
Over 1 || Score 5/0 (R Uthappa 1; G Gambhir 4)
Praveen Kumar started the proceedings.
A dot ball to Robin Uthappa, then the Kolkata Knight Riders opener took a single to open the account.
It was followed by a double as KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir gently played down the leg.
Another double as Gambhir played towards long leg.
Two dot balls to end the over.
Gujarat Lions : Dwayne Smith, Brendon McCullum, Aaron Finch, Suresh Raina (capt.
), Dinesh Karthik (wk), Dwayne Bravo, Ravindra Jadeja, Praveen Kumar, Dhawal Kulkarni, Pravin Tambe, Shivil Kaushik
Kolkata Knight Riders : Robin Uthappa (capt.
), Gautam Gambhir(wk), Manish Pandey, Shakib Al Hasan, Yusuf Pathan, Andre Russell, Suryakumar Yadav, Piyush Chawla, Brad Hogg, Morne Morkel, Umesh Yadav
TOSS : Suresh Raina wins toss, asks Kolkata Knight Riders to bat first at Eden Gardens.
Umpires : Marais Erasmus and Sundaram Ravi Third Umpire : Krishnamachari Bharatan Match Referee : Javagal Srinath Reserve Umpire : KN Ananthapadmanabhan
Kolkata Knight Riders : Gautam Gambhir (capt.
), Robin Uthappa, Manish Pandey, Yusuf Pathan, Andre Russell, Suryakumar Yadav, Piyush Chawla, Brad Hogg, Shakib Al Hasan, Umesh Yadav, Morne Morkel, Sunil Narine, Chris Lynn, Jason Holder, Manan Sharma, Colin Munro, Kuldeep Yadav, Sheldon Jackson, Ankit Rajpoot, Jaydev Unadkat, Rajagopal Sathish,
Gujarat Lions : Suresh Raina (capt.
), Dwayne Smith, Brendon McCullum, Aaron Finch, Dinesh Karthik, Ravindra Jadeja, James Faulkner, Ishan Kishan, Praveen Kumar, Dhawal Kulkarni, Shivil Kaushik, Sarabjit Ladda, Amit Mishra, Akashdeep Nath, Dwayne Bravo, Paras Dogra, Eklavya Dwivedi, Shadab Jakati, Pradeep Sangwan, Jaydev Shah, Umang Sharma, Dale Steyn, Pravin Tambe, Andrew Tye.
Thrown off the top spot after three successive losses, Gujarat Lions face the challenging task of gathering themselves and bounce back when they square off against the consistent Kolkata Knight Riders in their Indian Premier League (IPL) match at Eden Gardens.
For the IPL debutants, who showed a lot of promise leading the table miles ahead of others, the Gujarat Lions have started wilting at the business end of the tournament and stand the risk of falling by the wayside after suffering a hat-trick of defeats with their five-wicket loss in Sunrisers Hyderabad.
Eyeing a record third title, the KKR have been in good form and with four more home matches in the offing, there's no stopping Gautam Gambhir and Co.
While other teams have relied on overseas stars, KKR have four Indians in top five and the likes of Manish Pandey and Suryakumar Yadav too have impressed making it a winning combination to go with the fury of Andre Russell and Yusuf Pathan.
In contrast, Suresh Raina is beginning to show signs of struggle, weighed down by the burden of captaincy.
If their top heavy batting comprising the terrific trio of Brendon McCullum, Aaron Finch, Dwayne Smith is a boon, it's also turning out to be their bane.
The trio's failure has translated into the team's losses as their Indian combination of Raina, Ravindra Jadeja and Dinesh Karthik is hardly making any match-winning impact.
Welcome to our live coverage of the Match 38 of 2016 Indian Premier League between Kolkata Knight Riders and Gujarat Lions, being played at Eden Gardens, Kolkata.