Updated: May 05, 2016 14:06 IST
Bollywood actor and co-owner of Kolkata Knight Riders Shah Rukh Khan (right) talks with former India captain Sourav Ganguly during the Indian Premier League match against Kings XI Punjab at the Eden Gardens.
© BCCI
The Indian Premier League brought Shah Rukh Khan and Sourav Ganguly together at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday night.
Shah Rukh, one of the co-owners of Kolkata Knight Riders, and Ganguly, KKR's first icon and skipper, were seen exchanging pleasantries.Ganguly is now the president of the Cricket Association of Bengal and was happy to play host.
This was Shah Rukh's first 'home' match of the season.
He turned up with his son, AbRam.
The media has often speculated on the relationship between SRK and Ganguly after the hugely-popular Indian Test captain was dropped after three seasons as KKR skipper.
It was clear that KKR had looked for a captain who would lead by example and Ganguly wasn't living up to his reputation.
In spite of Ganguly quitting KKR, Shah Rukh has always had a healthy respect for the ex-Indian captain.
He always wanted KKR's fans and the media to move ahead and refrain from adding bitterness to the separation with Ganguly.
"To be honest, if we don't outgrow this, it is embarrassing not only to us, not only to me, it's embarrassing for Dada also...
"We should get over this.
Every time I come to Kolkata, if you are going to bring this up for a few headlines and some spicy titbits I think it's a little unfair."
Shah Rukh said in 2012.
"It's not only unfair to me.
It is unfair to the great legend that Sourav Ganguly is... Let him play his cricket, lead his life in whichever team he plays for, whether it's an Indian team, an IPL team or a domestic team.
"We should all be cheering for the greatness that he has achieved instead of making him small with these comparisons and belittling the importance of what Sourav Ganguly has achieved in Indian sports history," the actor said.
Life has moved on for both these greats.
Between the Badshah and the Prince, there was no Gham, only Khushi.
Eden was witness to this on Wednesday night.