Thursday was the day of cricketers in the Supreme Court with senior counsel Manish Tewari, representing legendary spinner Bishan Singh Bedi and former India all-rounder Kirti Azad, ripping off the façade over Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and state units by training his guns on Delhi & District Cricket Association (DDCA) malpractices.
It came just after Goa's former Ranji Trophy player Hemant Angle's counsel revealed the blatant financial misappropriation by Goa Cricket Association's office bearers.
The Special Bench of Chief Justice of India TS Thakur and FMI Kalifulla was told how BCCI's subvention money given to Goa as television subsidy to the tune of Rs 2.87 crore in 2007 was withdrawn by top office-bearers either by cash or self cheques.
The apex court was told that mismanagement and issues of defalcation were plaguing many associations including Haryana, Delhi, J&K and Goa that have been discussed in the last few days and were in itself sufficient reasons to interfere in the board's affairs.
Not stopping here, Tewari delved on the reports of various agencies including SFIO report (which had indicted DDCA on 62 counts), internal Fact Finding Committee report (prepared by own directors) and Justice Mukul Mudgal Report, where he slammed the local cricket body for mismanagement.
And how this has also happened when even Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was also looking into matters of financial fraud.
The former cricketers blamed the 'proxy voting system' as the root cause of all maladies in BCCI and state units, and typify how and why the same set of office bearers keep perpetuating themselves over decades by getting elected in sham elections.
Earlier, Goa's cricketer counsel revealed how a bank account was opened in a fraudulent manner in April 2007 showing Vinod Phadke as president, Chetan Dessai as secretary and Akbar Mulla as treasurer.
In reality, Dayanand Narvekar was heading the Goan cricket along with secretary Desai and treasurer Phadke.
Even the GCA resolution, which is mandatory for any association to open bank account, was not attached with the documents.
The affidavit filed by Angle claimed that this was done to siphon off money to the tune of Rs 2.87 crore given by BCCI as television subsidy in 2006.
It was further submitted that a huge sum of money was withdrawn many times as cash or by self cheques in individual names.
It is further submitted that Suryakant Naik (executive member of the GCA), who was also a central government employee, also got money to the tune of Rs 10,25,000.
It is submitted that this financial misappropriation is presently being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate.
The next hearing has been scheduled for May 10.