Cristhian Stuani's first-half tap-in put Middlesbrough in the driving seat against BrightonMiddlesbrough ended their seven-year Premier League absence by drawing a tense and nervy Championship promotion decider against Brighton & Hove Albion at the Riverside.
Both sides began the game knowing that victory would see them join champions Burnley in the top flight next season, though a draw was enough to see Boro pip the Seagulls to second place on goal difference.
Cristhian Stuani's goal, from Gaston Ramirez's delicious free-kick and David Nugent's touch across, put the hosts on their way in the first half.
Another free-kick led to Dale Stephens' equaliser, heading across goal at the back post after Brighton had begun the second period in full flow.
But Stephens soon turned villain when he was dismissed for a foul on Ramirez - and Boro made the man advantage count to retain the scoreline for the rest of the game, including eight minutes of added time.
Stuani celebrates the goal that sent Boro on their way to promotion back to the Premier LeagueThere was no end-of-season sunshine for the packed crowd at the Riverside, as a chilly murky day greeted the two teams at kick-off - thank goodness then for the red-hot atmosphere in the ground.
Boro struck through Stuani and then soaked up Brighton's attempts and showed quality on the break, with Uruguay international Ramirez hugely influential before he was withdrawn on a stretcher with a serious looking-leg injury.
Stuani, a compatriot of the Southampton loanee, could have had a hat-trick but saw a half-volley deflected over the top and then wasted a fine chance when he should have let fly.
The Seagulls showed glimpses of their threat in the opening 45 minutes but playmaker Biram Kayal was kept quiet and their forward line was well marshalled, in particular by Daniel Ayala.
However, the visitors emerged with more potency after the break and Stephens' header gave them hope, before he was sent off for a fierce tackle on Ramirez.
Boro lacked composure without their talismanic playmaker and Brighton, desperate for a goal, created spells of pressure but again Ayala, Ben Gibson and George Friend made big interventions.
Albert Adomah stuck his point-blank shot at David Stockdale as Boro sought the goal to make sure, but it did not matter in the end as the whistle blew to spark scenes of celebration and relief at the end of a sapping, absorbing game.
BBC Sport at the Riverside Stadium