"When you go to a charity event and see people who are ill, it makes you realise there's more to life than just cricket.
These people fighting for their lives," Jacques Kallis (L) said.
© BCCI
Kolkata: Back home after a gruelling three-week on the road, it's time for Kolkata Knight Riders to unwind playing golf and 'Putt for a Cause' -- to raise proceeds for the treatment of underprivileged children suffering from leukemia.
It was their head coach Jacques Kallis , an avid golfer, who led from the front along with CEO and MD Venky Mysore, Jason Holder, Brad Hogg, Morne Morkel, Colin Munro, Chris Lynn, Simon Katich, Adrian La Roux, Andrew Leipus for the second edition of 'Gionee Knight Golf' at the Royal Calcutta Golf Course.
"We're unbelievably lucky to get the support at Eden Gardens.
The guys feel strongly about the community.
When you go to charity and see people who're ill, it makes you realise there's more to life than just cricket.
These people fighting for their lives," Kallis said.
"Certainly those important parts in a game aren't as important as you think they're.
It sort of puts cricket into perspective.
It's nice to have that feeling of giving back and putting smile on young faces gives us joy."
Later in the evening, KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir along with his teammates joined them for a putting championship.
The legendary South African further said it's golf which makes him relax away from the grind of cricket.
"I'm a big believer that when you away from the game, you should get ways to relax.
You need to have something away from cricket that you enjoy.
For me, it's golf," Kallis said as he checked in at the RCGC in the morning, less than 12 hours after they defeated Kings XI Punjab in a pulsating seven-run victory.
"It's been a fantastic trip on the road in the three weeks we were away.
Most of our away games are done.
It was a magnificent effort keeping in view that the guys were tired after a long trip.
It just showed the fighting spirit, even as they were tired they managed to put in a big performance.
I'm really proud of the way they played so far.
They have been given couple of days off deservedly."