Boleyn Ground 1904-2016: Farewell Upton ParkWest Ham will sell off seats from their Boleyn Ground home for £50 each along with a treasure trove of other items ahead of their Olympic Stadium move.
The Hammers play their final game at the 35,000-capacity ground against Manchester United on Tuesday.
Goalposts, ground signs, a bubble machine, and even the manager's dugout seat will be available.
West Ham will auction trophies, photographs and shirts - with proceeds invested in the club's youth academy.
Caps, programmes, pennants, a small turnstile, an exercise bike from the home dressing room, a physio treatment table and flight case are also on offer.
Other lots include a mobile programme seller's stand, training mannequin, and the fax machine used by managers before current boss Slaven Bilic.
Two separate sales will be held later this month - one for stadium contents and the other for football memorabilia.
A set of match-day goalposts complete with net has a starting bid of £500 Some of the more unusual items listed for sale, with suggested starting bids (they may sell for more), are:
Set of entrance gates, renamed John Lyall Gates in 2009 after former manager - £5,000 Matchday goalposts with net - £500 Manager's three-drawer desk, complete with office chair and phone - £50 'Reserved for chairman' car park sign - £50 Cow bell gift from pre-season friendly v Bayern Munich - £50 Tracksuit believed to have been worn by Trevor Brooking before 1980 FA Cup final victory - £300 Manager's dugout seat, complete with heated element - £100 Bubble machine used to accompany club anthem 'Forever Blowing Bubbles - £20 'Sorry position closed' ticket office sign - £20
Season ticket holders are being given first options on buying seats, which are only available in a presentation box.
They cost £50 each if collected from the club, or slightly more if a delivery is required.
West Ham say it tried to make seats as cheap as possible, bearing in mind the "complexity of the process, the removal of individual seats and the commemorative packaging".
A toilet sign from the East Stand at the Boleyn Ground has a starting bid of just £20The club announced last month it would auction off items from the ground, with all the lots going online this week before bidding opens later in the month.
Vice-Chairman Karren Brady said: "We initially wanted to take everything that means so much to us at the Boleyn Ground to display at our new home, but since that has proved impossible, we are doing the next best thing by ensuring many of those items go to the homes of our fans instead.
"We've been inundated with requests from supporters asking how to get their hands on Boleyn Ground memorabilia, and - while we would never part with the most treasured items intrinsic to the club's history - we are delighted to make a select collection of artefacts available for auction, while in the process helping to support the next generation of history-makers emerging from the West Ham Academy."
West Ham say some items were not considered for auction, including the World Cup winners medals and England caps of Bobby Moore, Sir Geoff Hurst and Martin Peters.
The stadium contents online auction will open on 18 May and close over two days, 8 and 9 June, while the football memorabilia online auction will open on 23 May and close over two days, 13 and 14 June.
A live webcast auction at the Boleyn Ground will take place on 4 June.
£50 to start the bidding for this handy pitch-side sign