Swansea City manager Francesco Guidolin admits he will not have the final say on transfers this summer.
Francesco Guidolin had been linked with a switch to Watford before signing his new deal at the Liberty StadiumSwansea City manager Francesco Guidolin has admitted he will not have the final say on transfers this summer.
Guidolin wants to build a "good team" even though he will not be in control of transfers.
"I have spoken with the chairman, but in my career I have always left the decision for players with the club."
Guidolin said getting a new deal meant he'd "won his first challenge" at the club, but is now focused on what his squad will look like next season.
"I spoke with him about my favoured shape and characteristics of new players," Guidolin said.
"I can only say the characteristics of players that I want in new players, then the decision will be made by the club.
Alberto Paloschi was Francesco Guidolin's most expensive signing during the January transfer window"I can't say I want this player or that player, I can only talk about characteristics.
The decision is with our chairman.
"There is a good relationship and good communication between me and the chairman."
Guidolin, 60, was appointed in January on a six-month contract after Alan Curtis' temporary spell in charge, with the club in the relegation zone.
The Italian has led them to 11th place - 12 points clear of the bottom three, and they could finish in the top half.
Swansea end their Premier League season at home to Manchester City on Sunday and Guidolin believes the club will be stronger next term.
He said: "This season could be a lesson for the future because Swansea in the last 10 years, every year has been up and up," he said.
"It is not easy to keep going up in football.
It is important to have a season that is complicated to understand and learn new things."
When asked what his target for next season was, Guidolin replied with: "40 points.
And if it is possible, to play well."
BBC Wales football reporter