It was an amazing domestic season with some bizarre acts on and off the field.
Two matches witnessed a single umpire officiating from both ends while one ended in just one day.
In another encounter, a visiting captain compelled a home ‘star’, who later led India, to pacify agitated supporters.
And a substitute runner dealt the most heart-breaking blow on his team that gave the Ranji Trophy title away to Haryana, a rank outsider which richly deserved to become the champion, in 1991.
Kapil Dev led the team on the field, and coach Sarkar Talwar off it, as a bunch of inspired youngsters made history on this day 25 years ago.
“I can relive every match,” says Kapil Dev with pride.
For Talwar, the memories have stayed “fresh as ever.”
Dhanraj Singh, Ajay Jadeja, Amarjit Kaypee, Ajay Banerjee, Rajesh Puri, Vijay Yadav, Chetan Sharma, Yogendra Bhandari, Pradeep Jain, Vinay Dutt, Nitin Goel, Sumeet Dogra, Sukhdev Singh, Sandeep Joshi and Sanjay Bhatia were the proud members of the team.
Haryana began the season splendidly with a first-innings lead over Delhi at Gurgaon.
The match was supervised by A. N. Sinha at both ends because his partner, instead of Gurgaon in Haryana, went to Goregaon in Bombay.
Elsewhere, S. Venkataraghavan officiated the Delhi-Punjab match, with non-panel colleague Anil Chaudhary at square-leg, since his partner did not report for the game.
Haryana took Services in its stride with debutant leg-spinner Sandeep Joshi’s five-wicket strike marking victory over Himachal Pradesh.
There was drama in store when Haryana travelled to Jammu.
The host — Jammu and Kashmir — batted first, made 145 and Haryana ended the day at 72 for three.
No ball was bowled thereafter because the pitch at the Maulana Azad Stadium was dug up by miscreants in the night.
In a do-or-die match, Haryana got past Punjab on first-innings lead, thanks to its last-wicket pair of Pradeep Jain and Joshi, who got the required 22 runs to frustrate Punjab.
Taming the Bengal tiger In the quarterfinal at Gurgaon, Haryana stopped Uttar Pradesh and then tamed Bengal in its own den at the next stage.
There was unrest in the gallery next to the dressing room at Eden Gardens when spectators reacted to a show of dissent by Sourav Ganguly, who was persuaded by Kapil to walk up to the trouble-makers and admit he had been rightly given out caught-behind.
Ganguly was then in only his second first-class season.
Ajay Banerjee, asked to hang in, responded with a 111 as Kapil and Vijay Yadav hit a century each to corner glory.
The final at the Wankhede Stadium was an epic.
Deepak Sharma scored 199.
Dilip Vengsarkar, batting with a runner — Lalchand Rajput, nearly snatched the match away with a masterly 139 not out but Bombay fell excruciatingly short when debutant Abey Kuruvilla responded to Rajput’s call and was run out by Kaypee’s throw.
Vengsarkar sank to the ground even as Haryana celebrated the one-run triumph.
An eventful season had ended on an astonishing note.
The reunion on Saturday was celebrated with the players exchanging fond images of that fascinating season on Whatsapp.
Incidentally, Haryana has not come close to winning the trophy since.