London, May 12: England called up uncapped duo Jake Ball and James Vince for their 12-man squad for the first Test against Sri Lanka on Thursday.Seam bowler Jake Ball and batsman James Vince were the only two uncapped players named in
Updated: Thursday, May 12, 2016, 16:38 [IST]
London, May 12: England called up uncapped duo Jake Ball and James Vince for their 12-man squad for the first Test against Sri Lanka on Thursday.
Seam bowler Jake Ball and batsman James Vince were the only two uncapped players named in the squad.
File Photo.
England Cricket team
Ball was called into the England Test squad for the first time following some excellent performance for country Nottinghamshire.
The 25-year-old is the joint leading wicket-taker in the country's first division.
Vince, the Hampshire captain, is in line to make his England Test debut adding to his one One-Day cap and four T20 caps.
"Both Jake Ball and James Vince thoroughly deserve their opportunity having performed well with the England Lions and starting the season in good form with their respective counties," Engand and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) selector James Whitaker said.
"Building on his success with the Lions in the winter, Jake has impressed with the ball and shown excellent control and skill in the opening matches of the County Championship.
If selected, we are confident he will perform very well at international level.
"James has been a consistent performer for Hampshire and England Lions over the past few years.
He is already well regarded by the England coaches in the short format and now has the opportunity to showcase his skills at Test level," he added.
"Sri Lanka are a young side and we expect a strong series between the two teams to start the summer of international cricket.
"The selectors would like to take this opportunity to wish Alastair Cook , Trevor Bayliss and the rest of the squad the best of luck for the series."
Alastair Cook (Captain), Moeen Ali, James Anderson, Jonny Bairstow, Jake Ball, Stuart Broad, Nick Compton, Steven Finn, Alex Hales, Joe Root, Ben Stokes, James Vince.
Story first published: Thursday, May 12, 2016, 14:36 [IST]