Pune, May 9: Indian Super League (ISL) fooball club FC Pune City strengthened their home-bred options by signing winger Zodingliana Ralte and goalkeeper Vishal Kaith for the 2016 edition of the league.
Ralte better known as 'Adinga' by many, played for NorthEast United in 2014 season and Delhi Dynamos in 2015.
The 21-year old winger started his career with Shillong Lajong after the North Eastern club selected him from an U-14 football festival held in Goa.
To bolster their goalkeeping options Vishal Kaith will join the ranks alongside Arindham Bhattacharya.
Having played the nationals for Himachal Pradesh, Kaith was picked by the AIFF to play for the U-16 and U-19 national sides.
He then joined the AIFF Elite Academy in 2013, where for a year he honed his skills and was eventually picked up by Shillong Lajong FC.
FC Pune City CEO Gaurav Modwel said, "Both Ralte and Kaith were one of the most sought after youth talent in the country.
Zodingliana is a versatile player and can play in a variety of positions, be it left back or even in the middle of the park.
Kaith on the other hand is one of the best young goalkeepers in the country.
We were closely following their performances and are thankful to Shillong Lajong for allowing them to continue their development with our club."
Head Coach, Antonio Habas said, "Having had the chance to assess the various players we already have on board, we were able to identify the characteristics and positions needed to strengthen the squad.
In both Ralte and Kaith we are filling up the jigsaw puzzle with the right pieces.
I can't wait until all of them start training with us."
Shillong Lajong general secretary Larsing Sawyan was delighted to see two of his I-League team players representing FC Pune City for the 2016 edition of Indian Super League.
"Both Ralte & Kaith are amongst the elite talents to have represented our club.
Their commitment to FC Pune City will be nothing less than 100% and we wish them the best for the coming edition of ISL."