Dinesh Karthik is confident that Gujarat Lions can bounce back © IPL
If it ain't broke, don't fix it - Gujarat Lions seem to be clinging on to this vital mantra.
The Rajkot-based outfit wasted no time in finding the right balance to produce instant results, unlike their fellow debutants in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2016.
Six wins in first seven fixtures became an all-time IPL record as Suresh Raina's boys were perched atop of the table early.
But, as the nature of this two-month long event would have it, a dip in form and a flip of results was almost inevitable.
Their points tally, of 12 from 7 games, remained stagnant as they suffered two successive defeats.
Three losses in nine games is still far from catastrophic, but with several sides engaging in a mid-table squabble, putting a bit of daylight between themselves and the rest is never a bad idea.
In that sense, Lions may seem like they're loosening their grip, prompting them to identify the reason for the sudden slump.
"See obviously, we've had two tough games.
I think we've batted poorly in both.
Batting being our strength compared to bowling, I think we haven't lived up to our expectations and in the long tournament like this, these things are bound to happen," Dinesh Karthik said, in a pre-match press conference on Thursday (May 5).
While spotting and addressing any technical area in need attention is the way to go, it also becomes very crucial for sides not to get completely carried away.
"What's important is to keep the same approach in terms of batting and attitude and keep believing.
It's important that you don't start changing things up just because things have not gone your way for two games," Karthik added.
In a long tournament such as the IPL, there's very little turnaround time.
Teams can ill-afford to dwell upon results as travel and a taxing fixture list takes priority.
When form and morale pulls players down, the role of the coaching staff comes into play, as they're expected to step in and drag the entire unit forward.
"Obviously we were a little upset after the loss in the last game.
We were expecting to do a little better than that.
But the good thing is Hodgy (Brad Hodge) has got all the boys together and we've now kind of realised where we've gone wrong and we'll try and correct those mistake and put up a brilliant show in the next couple of games," Karthik revealed.
The two back-to-back defeats have come at the expense of a shoddy batting performance from a line-up equipped with prolific batters.
Lions' ploy of using Brendon McCullum, Dwayne Smith and Aaron Finch - three of the biggest hitters in the tournament - at the top of the order didn't yield the desired results, but Karthik picked out Ravindra Jadeja's performance with the bat as the silver lining amidst the dark clouds.
He also talked up the worth of Dwayne Bravo, who is expected to return to the side after missing the previous fixture due to injury.
"At this stage, the good thing is that Jaddu has got runs for us last game.
It is a great plus for us because he's a very, very important cricketer for us and he forms the crux of the team in the middle of the order.
"And I am sure, the way Bravo is batting in the nets, it's only a matter of time before he gets going and I am really confident that if those two guys get going, we're on track for some special things," Karthik added.
It was Sunrisers Hyderabad who had clipped the wings of the high-flying Gujarat Lions, when the two sides met earlier in the tournament.
The Lions' initial three-game winning spree was snapped, with Sunrisers cruising to a ten-wicket win.
That however, will not play on the minds of the Lions, feels Karthik, who expects an interesting battle on Friday.
"That was pretty early in the tournament (Loss to SRH).
Things have changed now.
Confidence levels of the batsmen and bowlers are different now, to what it was.
It's going to be an interesting battle.
Obviously they're a good bowling side and we'll look to match up to them and do the best that we can," Karthik said.
LATEST NEWS