New Zealand international Tom Latham helped Kent to a comfortable victory Specsavers County Championship Division Two, Spitfire Ground, St Lawrence, CanterburyKent v Glamorgan, day fourKent 488 & 190-0: Bell-Drummond 86*, Latham 79* Glamorgan 260 & 414: Lloyd 107, Wagg 106; Stevens 4-79Kent win by 10 wickets Kent 24 pts, Glamorgan 5 pts Match scorecard
Kent cruised to their first Division Two win of the season in the Canterbury sunshine as openers Daniel Bell-Drummond and Tom Latham steered them past their modest target of 187.
They became only the third Kent opening pair in Championship history to make two century stands in a match.
Kent completed their 10-wicket win with more than half of day four to spare.
It was a second defeat in three games for a Glamorgan side who were outplayed for three of the four days.
Kent captain Sam Northeast: "We only had two days of cricket in our first two games, so it's good to get started.
It's a pretty good result, we weren't perfect but we got the job done in the end.
"The openers are both in really good form.
A right/left handed partnership is brilliant to have.
"Daniel Bell-Drummond looks in great touch and Tom Latham obviously has that bit of quality up the top and it bodes well for the future."
"These chases of 180 or so can prove difficult but the openers did really well to finish it off."
Glamorgan head coach Robert Croft: "In the end we're disappointed we lost the game.
Looking back we got the toss wrong, it did do a lot on the first morning but Kent would have batted as well.
"From that moment, it was very difficult to get back into the game but every one of the batters showed character [in the second innings] - David Lloyd and Graham Wagg's hundreds were superb and let's not forget James Kettleborough and Will Bragg gave us a bit of momentum.
"We're speaking to our medical team about [injured batsman] Colin Ingram.
The important thing is we pick a team to compete and hopefully win against Worcestershire.
"A hundred for Nick Selman in the second team [against Surrey], a hundred for Mark Wallace as well last week against Yorkshire so they look in good form."