After 14 overs,Kolkata 88/4 ( Shakib Al Hasan 23 , Yusuf Pathan 40)
After consolidating, Pathan and Shakid al Hassan have changed gears.
The KKR batsman have been given a helping hand by bringing on the spinners.
Both Pathan and Shakib are top players of spin and perhaps Suresh Raina missed a trick by not continuing with his pace bowlers when the wicket was doing something for the quickies
After 10 overs,Kolkata 57/4 ( Shakib Al Hasan 13 , Yusuf Pathan 19)
Yusuf Pathan and Shakib al Hassan have steadied the Kolkata Knight Riders ship a bit.
Pathan has looked good and the Knight Riders will be hoping he stays till the end here.
If that happens, KKR is most likely to have reached a target they would like to defend after the disastrous start to their innings
Check out this sensational catch from Suresh Raina to get rid off SA Yadav
After 7 overs,Kolkata 33/4 ( Shakib Al Hasan 4 , Yusuf Pathan 5)
The Gujarat Lions' bowlers just haven't allowed the Kolkata Knight Riders batsman to express themselves.KKR could have been five down had Pravin Tambe held on to the cat at third man.
But otherwise the Gujarat Lions have backed the bowlers with some really good fielding.
The Knight Riders will be taking heart by the fact that the pitch has plenty on offer for the bowlers and they may not need a score like 180 to remain competitive.
A good partnership now can take them to a score which they can hope to defend
OUT!
What a catch by Suresh Raina!
SA Yadav c Raina b Smith 4
Bounce in Smith's delivery surprised Yadav who was was caught absolutely brilliantly at slip by Suresh Raina.
This will be right up there with the among the best catches in the tournament
OUT!
Uthappa departs RV Uthappa c †Karthik b Kulkarni 14
The ball is moving and the Knight Riders batsman are struggling to deal with it.
Dhaval Kulkarni joins in the party and removes the in-form Uthappa with a brilliant out-swinger which takes the outside edge
After 3 overs,Kolkata 17/2 ( Robin Uthappa (W) 10 , Suryakumar Yadav 2)
Praveen Kumar has rocked the Kolkata Knight Riders top order which is often known for laying down the foundations for the big hitters to explode.
Kumar has got the bowl to move and the KKR batsman have struggled to live with it so far
Two wickets for Praveen Kumar!
First Gambhir and then Pandey.
Was probably lucky with Gambhir who played on to his stumps off his pads, but the second one was just pure class.
An inch-perfect out-swinger that is impossible to play for a newcomer KKR 15/2
Praveen Kumar to bowl the first over for Gujarat Lions
Gautam Gambhir and Robin Uthappa are walking out to open the innings for Kolkata Knight Riders.
The two openers have been in great form and gave the Knight Riders a great platform at the start of the innings against the Kings XI Punjab last time out.
The fans at the Eden Gardens will be hoping for more of the same
GL XI: Smith, McCullum, Raina (c), Karthik, Finch, Bravo, Jadeja, Praveen, Tambe, Dhawal, Kaushik
KKR XI: Uthappa (wk), Gambhir (c), Pathan, Russell, Pandey, Suryakumar, Shakib, Hogg, Chawla, Morkel Umesh
Pravin Tambe comes comes in for Pradeep Sangwan for the Gujarat Lions while Kolkata Knight Riders name an unchaged side for the game at the Eden gardens today.
Expect a cracking top of the table clash
Gujarat Lions have won the toss and Suresh Raina has invited the Kolkata Knight Riders to bat first.
Suresh Raina feels it is better to chase at the Eden Gardens
Hello and welcome ot the live blog for Kolkata Knight Riders vs Gujarat Lions.
Stung by three successive losses, IPL newcomers Gujarat Lions will aim to bounce back when they meet the in-form KKR at the Eden Gardens.
Kolkata: Stung by three successive losses, Indian Premier League ( IPL ) newcomers Gujarat Lions will aim to bounce back when they meet the in-form Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday.
Gujarat have been the team to watch out for from the beginning of the season.
They kicked-off their campaign with a series of wins, but lately they have been struggling.
On Friday night they suffered a five-wicket loss against Sunrisers Hyderabad and they will now have to deal with a very consistent KKR side.
The Knights have grabbed two back-to-back wins from their previous outings including a last over thriller against Kings XI Punjab on Wednesday.
They have collected 12 points from eight games and Gautam Gambhir and his men are showing no signs of slowing down yet.
The captain has led from the front alongwith his opening partner Robin Uthappa.
Both have scored plenty of runs, including a 101-run stand against Kings XI in the last game.
The duo have been well supported by the likes of Manish Pandey and Suryakumar Yadav.
Yusuf Pathan and Andre Russell too have come up with crucial knocks in tricky situations.
Gujarat Lions captain Suresh Raina and Kolkata Knight Riders captain Gautam Gambhir shake at the toss.
SportzPics
Russell has also contributed with the ball.
He has time and again bowled in difficult situations and delivered.
The biggest example was his last over in the previous game where he gave away just four runs to gift his side a seven-run victory.
KKR's mystery spinner Sunil Narine, who is undergoing treatment for a bruised finger, is likely to make a comeback against Gujarat.
For the visitors, their top order trio of Brendon McCullum, Aaron Finch and Dwayne Smith had been terrific in the first few matches but of late they seemed to have lost a bit of colour.
Even Raina is struggling with his form and has scored just one fifty in 10 games.
His half-ton, however came in a losing cause as Sunrisers easily overhauled the target with five wickets to spare in their last game.
If they are to dent KKR’s chances of winning the game, they will have to bat well in the slow and low Eden strip but with the armoury of slow bowlers that the hosts have it would not be easy.
Raina would want to pack his side with spinners on a track like this and therefore the 44-year-old Pravin Tambe might get a look in besides Chinaman tweaker Shivil Kaushik.
Kolkata Knight Riders : Gautam Gambhir (captain), Robin Uthappa, Manish Pandey, Yusuf Pathan, Andre Russell, Suryakumar Yadav, Piyush Chawla, Brad Hogg, Shakib Al Hasan, Umesh Yadav, Morne Morkel, Sunil Narine, Chris Lynn, Jason Holder, Manan Sharma, Colin Munro, Kuldeep Yadav, Sheldon Jackson, Ankit Rajpoot, Jaydev Unadkat, Rajagopal Sathish,
Gujarat Lions: Suresh Raina (captain), Dwayne Smith, Brendon McCullum, Aaron Finch, Dinesh Karthik, Ravindra Jadeja, James Faulkner, Ishan Kishan, Praveen Kumar, Dhawal Kulkarni, Shivil Kaushik, Sarabjit Ladda, Amit Mishra, Akashdeep Nath, Dwayne Bravo, Paras Dogra, Eklavya Dwivedi, Shadab Jakati, Pradeep Sangwan, Jaydev Shah, Umang Sharma, Dale Steyn, Pravin Tambe, Andrew Tye.