Neil Dexter is in his first season with Leicestershire since joining from Middlesex Specsavers County Championship Division Two, Fischer County Ground, LeicesterLeicestershire v Northamptonshire, day twoLeicestershire 332 & 132-6: O'Brien 48*, Sanderson 4-36 Northamptonshire 151: Rossington 35, White 4-24, Dexter 3-15Leicestershire lead by 313 runs Leicestershire 6 pts, Northamptonshire 3 pts Match scorecard
Wayne White and Neil Dexter tormented Northamptonshire with the ball as Leicestershire earned a 181-run first-innings lead against Northants.
Dexter, who scored 98 on day one, ran through the middle order with 3-15, while White took 4-24 as the visitors lost their last six wickets for 25.
Northants were dismissed for 151 inside two sessions, but Leicestershire chose not to enforce the follow-on.
Niall O'Brien closed on 48 not out, with the hosts 132-6, leading by 313.
Ben Sanderson removed Aadil Ali with the final ball of the day after he had added 53 with O'Brien.
Northamptonshire are already facing a target they have never managed to chase in the fourth innings against Leicestershire.
Leicestershire captain Mark Cosgrove told BBC Radio Leicester:
"With the pitch nipping around, and the occasional ball starting to keep low, making it tough to bat last, I felt it was more valuable to have the runs on the board.
"We're 300 ahead, which is a good position to be in, hopefully we can get another hundred and get bowling at them again.
"The pitch isn't a minefield but, if you keep putting the ball in the right area, you'll get enough chances to win."
Northamptonshire batsman Jake Libby told BBC Radio Northampton:
"We thought we'd be back in the field, because of the amount of time left in the game and I guess their theory is the wicket is going to go a bit up and down.
"There's always going to be enough in the pitch to keep the bowlers interested.
But there's pace too, the ball comes on to the bat nicely, so you can get your runs too.
"We feel we've clawed our way back into the game, and if we can take their last four wickets quickly, anything is possible."