May 6, 9:56 am
New Delhi, May.
6 ( ANI ): Olympic-bound men's singles shuttler K Srikanth of India slipped a place to be ranked World No.
12 in the latest Badminton World Federation (BWF) rankings.
2010 Commonwealth Games champion duo of Jwala Gutta and Ashwini Ponappa, who made the cut for their second Olympics, rose one rung to be World No.14 in women's doubles.
In women's singles, Saina Nehwal and P V Sindhu, who will be representing India at the Rio Games, were static at No.
8 and No.
10.
Manu Attri and B Sumeeth Reddy, who became the first Indian men's doubles pair to play in the Olympics, slipped a spot to be positioned at the 20th spot.
Among others, H S Prannoy jumped two places to reach the 25th spot, while Ajay Jayaram lost a spot to be placed 21st in the men's singles rankings which is topped by China's Chen Long.
( ANI ) Liverpool reach Europa finals post 3-1 aggregate win over 10-man Villarreal May 6, 9:49 amLondon, May 6 ( ANI ): Liverpool remained on course of clinching this season's Europa League title as they have secured their place in the finals of the tournament after claiming a 3-1 aggregate win over Villarreal at the Anfield.
Full Story
Djokovic, Murray sail into Madrid Masters quarters May 5, 11:14 pmJohannesburg, May.5 ( ANI ): World number one Novak Djokovic and defending champion Andy Murray produced contrasting performances to secure their berths in the quarterfinals of the Madrid Masters on Thursday.
Full Story
Pakistan skipper Azhar Ali demands improved show post ODI slump May 5, 10:54 pmJohannesburg, May.5 ( ANI ): Expressing concerns over his country's perpetual decline in the one-day international rankings, Pakistan captain Azhar Ali has called on his side to lift their performance against top teams in order to improve their position.
Full Story
FC Goa fined Rs 11 cr over ISL fracas May 5, 10:04 pmMumbai, May.
5 ( ANI ): Football Club Goa have been slapped with a fine of Rs.
11 crore and will be docked 15 points in the next Indian Super League season for their role in the post-finale fracas last year.
Full Story