Rachita Mistry is far from disappointed that Dutee Chand has broken her 16-year-old record to become officially the fastest woman on track in India. Mistry believes Dutee’s recent performances are goo...
Rachita Mistry is far from disappointed that Dutee Chand has broken her 16-year-old record to become officially the fastest woman on track in India.
Mistry believes Dutee’s recent performances are good enough for her to qualify for the Olympics sooner than later but insists that it isn’t just about one athlete.
“She is good enough and I think she will qualify for Rio.
Her timings have been impressive but, more important, they are consistent which is crucial,” Mistry told The Hindu at a talent hunt programme organised by GAIL as one of the selectors.
“Why should I be disappointed?
Records are meant to be broken and I am very happy that the Indian sprinters are getting so much better now,” she added.
At the same time Mistry, who was also the national 200m champion for a long time, insisted that constantly ruing the lack of either facilities or competition in the country wouldn’t help.
“See, at the end of the day, you have to accept what you have.
“Today things are so much better compared to our time.
I am not one of those who keep comparing things but you have to make do with what you have.
We did with what we had; Dutee has to do the same and prove herself as the best,” Rachita said.
Accompanied by Kavita Raut, who has already qualified for Rio in the marathon, Mistry added that those who have already met the Rio qualifying mark should be given more attention.
Kavita has been training in Ooty and Nashik with her coach Vijender Singh since qualifying at the SAF Games in February this year.
“Getting foreign training or exposure six months or a year back would have been welcome.
“Now I have just about two months left and I do not want to waste my time or energy in making arrangements or travelling now.
I have been offered foreign tours but I am not interested in going just for the heck of it.
I would rather concentrate on my training here, improving my timing and may be try and participate in a couple of half-marathons in India only,” Kavita said.