Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor VVS Laxman revealed the secret behind Ashish Nehra's match-winning performance against Mumbai Indians on Sunday.
The former India batsman shared a photo on social media in which Nehra was seen preparing for the big game against Rohit & Co. yesterday.
Yeah, it was a quirky attempt made by Laxman to shed light on the other side of the veteran Indian pacer.
On Sunday, Nehra shone with the ball and led Sunrisers to an 85-run win over the defending champions Mumbai in Visakhapatnam.
Nehra ran through Mumbai's top-order and finished with figures of 3/15 in his three-over spell to bag the Man of the Match award.In a light-hearted chat to iplt20.com after the match, Nehra revealed why he was shunning away from social media despite the sincere attempts made by his teammates to sign up for Twitter.
"VVS Laxman is on my case to make me come on social media, but I am not coming anytime soon.
It consumes too much time," Nehra said.
The left-handed pacer said that he had no time for social media amidst the tight IPL schedule.
"I am too busy trying to keep myself fit.
We are playing a game every alternate day and so I don't have time for all this," Nehra said.
Nehra had been remarkably consistent since he got back into the Indian squad in December last year.
He has made sure he is not bogged down by fitness woes which once troubled him and made him sit out of the team for more than four years.
Nehra has taken 18 wickets in 15 T20I matches this season at an average of 20.66.
After impressing MS Dhoni in yellow colours at Chennai Super Kings, Nehra answered his captain's call and became the bowling spearhead of Team India in T20s since his return.
Plying his trade for Sunrisers Hyderabad this IPL season, Nehra has so far picked up five wickets from five matches.
The veteran seems to sharing the ticks of the trade with the youngsters Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Barinder Sran and Mustafizur Rahman at the Hyderabad camp and the team is reaping the results with strong bowling performances.
"We have got a very good bowling attack.
We have got variety in three young guys and I am trying to support them," Nehra said.
When asked if he was planning to take up coaching role in future, Nehra said he had never thought what he was going to do after retirement.
"Many people have been asking me this question.
I have always told them that I am still playing cricket.
However, you never know, one day, maybe," Nehra hinted.
Sunrisers Hyderabad pacer Ashish Nehra on Sunday revealed what was stopping him from making his social media debut.
Ashish Nehra celebrates after picking up a wicket against Mumbai Indidans yesterday.
(BCCI Photo)