Adelaide, May 12: India wants to host Australia in a day-night Test match during their tour in 2017, Cricket Australia (CA) chief executive officer James Sutherland said on Thursday. (India to play their first day-night Test this year at home: BCCI)He
Updated: Thursday, May 12, 2016, 15:50 [IST]
Adelaide, May 12: India wants to host Australia in a day-night Test match during their tour in 2017, Cricket Australia (CA) chief executive officer James Sutherland said on Thursday.
India are also planning to host their first day-night Test against New Zealand later this year.
The pink-ball format is steadily gaining a foothold with Pakistan also interested in playing Sri Lanka under lights.
"I think there's certainly some positive signals coming out of India and other parts of the world regarding day-night Tests," Sutherland was quoted as saying by Big Sports Breakfast radio.
"Indicatively they've (BCCI) started to talking to us about the prospect of playing a day-night Test match against Australia when Australia tours in February and March of next year," he said.
Steve Smith's team could be set for their first day-night Test on foreign soil when they return to India next year.
"That's just a pretty strong indicator of where things are at.
When you look at the big picture it's probably not surprising because day-night Test cricket is just a no-brainer really, giving more opportunities for fans to get along to the cricket and watch it on TV," Sutherland said.
An expected four-Test series in India next autumn would be Australia's first trip back to the subcontinent for Tests since their 4-0 whitewash that led to the sacking of then coach Mickey Arthur.
Arthur was replaced by current head coach Darren Lehmann.
Sutherland also said it was "all systems go" for a planned day-night Test against South Africa in Adelaide, although the fixture has yet to be confirmed as a pink-ball match under lights.
"At our end we're all systems go for Adelaide as a day-night Test match.
We're still working through a couple of things with our South African colleagues and their players' association, but I'm very optimistic we'll get there," Sutherland added.
Story first published: Thursday, May 12, 2016, 14:54 [IST]