 
Out of the seven teams remaining in contention for the Playoffs – Rising Pune Supergiants are already confirmed of a bottom-half finish with only six points and three matches to go – Kings XI Punjab are facing a precarious situation.
With one extra match remaining than RPS, KXIP have to win all their remaining four to stand a chance for the top-four finish.
As on date, with six points from 10 games, KXIP are last in points table, even below RPS, and they will look to climb up one game at a time starting with defending champions Mumbai Indians here on Friday night.
Kings XI Punjab need not look beyond their next immediate opponents who have fought their way up from a pathetic start in IPL 2015 to go on to win the title.
And, Rohit Sharma and Co. are doing it this season too, having been inconsistent with their performances, some abject batting failures to collapse to lowly scores as 121 (vs RPS) and 92 (vs SRH) mixed with some sensational run-chases with the big-hitters Kieron Pollard and Jos Buttler finishing things off if Rohit Sharma and Ambati Rayudu rarely fail to put to fruitful partnerships.
The only constant factor for Mumbai Indians has been their seam-bowling, though not as powerful as the five-man army of Sunrisers Hyderabad but still equally effective, led by left-armer Mitchell McClenaghan, who has been among the top-three wicket-takers – the Purple Cap changing hands between him, SRH's Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Andre Russell of Kolkata Knight Riders.
McClenaghan receives good support in the first six overs with fellow Kiwi and tidy swing bowler Tim Southee and Jasprit Bumrah in the end overs with spinners Harbhajan Singh and Krunal Pandya controlling the game in the middle-overs.
One feature that caught the eye in Mumbai Indians' morale-boosting win over Royal Challengers in Bengaluru on Wednesday night was that captain Rohit Sharma kept the RCB batsmen guessing and not let them settle down against one particular bowler by constantly making bowling changes.
Barring two two-over spells to man-of-the-match Pandya and a three-over spell to Harbhajan, Sharma gave one-over spells to his medium-pacers.
While MI are still in the hunt, the same cannot be said of KXIP, who go into every match as if it were a knock-out.
The main reason for them to be in this situation is that their overseas players have not lived up to the expectations.
The blistering knocks from the Glenn Maxwell were missing.
As also David Miller, who was a disaster as a captain and despite the reins being stripped of him, his batting failure continued.
Only young all-rounder Marcus Stoinis has shown signs of performing despite walking in to bat in the death, nearly winning the game in their last match against RCB before coming here besides bowling tidily in the death overs.
The Indian players have shouldered the burden with aplomb but without support from the overseas professionals, their efforts come to nothing.
Such has been the disappointing performance of KXIP that their best batsman, captain Murali Vijay, and their best bowler, Sandeep Sharma figure outside the top 10 in the list of most runs and most wickets this IPL, respectively.
It is now or never for KXIP.
This being the most unpredictable format, anything is possible in Twenty20 cricket.
Whatever happens, entertainment is guaranteed.