An all-time high seven Indian shuttlers have qualified for the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Except for mixed doubles, India will be represented in all the other four events – men's singles (Kidambi Srikanth), men's doubles (Manu Attri/ B Sumeeth Reddy), women's singles (Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu) and women's doubles (Jwala Gutta/ Ashwini Ponnappa).
While it is encouraging that India have their largest badminton contingent at the Olympics since the discipline made its debut at the Summer Games in 1992, the form of these seven players this year has not been encouraging.
India's best male shuttler at No.
12, Kidambi Srikanth has lost in the first round in his last five tournaments – Badminton Asia Championship, China Masters, Singapore Open, Malaysia Open and India Open.
His only high point this year has been his triumph in the Syed Modi International Badminton Championships and the semifinal loss in the Malaysia Masters in January.
PV Sindhu, world No.
10 in women's singles, has also hit a low lately after winning the Malaysia Masters in January.
Quarterfinal loses in German Open, Swiss Open, India Open, Malaysia Open and China Masters to a Chinese or Thai notwithstanding, Sindhu has done her bit to retain the ranking points in the race to Olympics.
Jwala Gutta and Ashwini Ponnapa, ranked 14 in women's doubles, were quarterfinalists in China Masters and New Zealand Open, and semifinalists in Syed Modi tournament.
The men's doubles qualifiers, Manu Attri and Sumeeth Reddy – the first ever Indian men's pair to participate in Olympics – have done little of note barring the final loss in Peru International Challenge last month.
Among all those who have qualified, 2012 London Olympics bronze medallist Saina Nehwal has been India's brightest spot.
Having missed the first two months of this year due to injury, the World No.
8 has entered four semifinals and one quarterfinal in the five tournaments that she entered.
However, one should not read too much into their form so far, as former international shuttler turned coach Uday Pawar said.
"I feel Olympics is not as tough as other tournaments.
A lot of representation is given to different zones like Asia Pacific, South America, etc.
So, you get some easy players in the earlier rounds.
If you get a good draw, you can reach the quarterfinals or the semifinals.
"We should not be worried about our shuttlers' form till now.
Most of them may not be consistent but have done well.
If they peak at the right time, and get a good draw, they are in medal contention," Pawar said, stressing on the fact that the Indians' progress depends on the draw.
He added that players' indifferent form was mainly due to them battling injuries and still playing in tournaments, "because they are forced to play in them to protect their ranking points to be in the race for Olympic qualification."
Pawar added that it is how the shuttlers train in the lead up to the Games that will determine their progress.
"With Olympics three months away, they have time.
Good players will come strong with good preparation.
You cannot just go by past record and form.
How they train and prepare in the weeks leading to the Games will judge their form," said Pawar.
Pawar, who runs his academy at the Goregaon Sports Club, said India stood a chance in all the four events that they have qualified in.
Here's the form of Rio-Bound shuttlers in 2016 (current rank in bracket)
Winner: Syed Modi International Championships
Semifinalist: Malaysia Masters
Rd 1: India Open, Malaysia Open, Singapore Open, China Masters, Badminton Asia Championships
Semifinalist: Swiss Open, India Open, Malaysia Open, Badminton Asia Championships
Quarterfinalist: All England Open
Quarterfinalist: German Open, Swiss Open, India Open, Malaysia Open, China Masters
Rd 2: Syed Modi International Championships, Singapore Open, Badminton Asia Championships
Semifinalists: Syed Modi International Championships
Quarterfinalists: New Zealand Open, China Masters
Rd 1: All-England Open, India Open, Singapore Open, Badminton Asia Championships
Finalists: Peru International Challenge
Quarterfinalists: New Zealand Open
Rd 2: German Open, India Open
Rd 1: Syed Modi International Championships, All England, Malaysia Open, China Masters, Badminton Asia Championships