The numbers may not be in his favour, but Leander Paes believes he is no less a champion than anyone else.
The 42-year-old Paes, who has slipped in the rankings to No.
54 in doubles this week, and forced to compete on the less-rewarding Challenger circuit, was happy to find his winning touch in Korea.
It was his first title since winning the US Open mixed doubles with Martina Hingis in September 2015.
“It is always great to be a winner,” said Paes, who won the $100,000 Busan Challenger with Sam Groth of Australia on Sunday, an effort that fetched the pair $6,200 and 110 ATP points.
With Rohan Bopanna, ranked No.
13 in the world after finishing runner-up in the ATP event in Madrid on Sunday, and pocketing 600 ATP points with Florin Mergea of Romania, there was no doubt about who would have a better say in the weeks ahead.
A good run in the ATP event in Rome this week, followed by the French Open in Paris, where he had made the third round last year, is very likely to push Bopanna back into the top 10, by the cut-off date for the Olympics on June 6.
Big points Interestingly, the big points from the Stuttgart title last year are set to fall out of his account only a week after the Olympics deadline.
The top-10 player, by the ITF rule, will have the right of choice of doubles partner.
However, it may be recalled that Paes could not exercise the right the last time in 2012, for the London Olympics.
Thus, Paes is not concerned about making it to a record seventh Olympics in Rio de Janeiro!
Like a good chess player, who looks ahead of the obvious next move, he sees further ahead.
“Great to win on the hard courts before the Olympics,” said Paes, who will be competing in another Challenger in Seoul this week.
Paes sidestepped the question about his entry in the French Open and the name of his partner, even as he dismissed the idea of taking the small steps to get back into the big league.
He was winning a Challenger title for the first time since 2000.
“I have always been in the big league,” countered Paes.
It was indeed a statement of fact, as Paes has won a Tour title every year since 1997 in a phenomenal career in which he has won 54 doubles titles in the big league.
“Winning three Grand Slams out of four, leading into the Olympic year is not big enough for you?” Paes shot back.
The evergreen champion, who had won the individual Olympic bronze behind Andre Agassi and Sergei Bruguera at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, Paes firmly believes that Olympic medals are still within his reach.
The problem, perhaps, is to find players sharing the faith.
“Perceptions can be altered, but truth and class always remain,” said Paes, emphasising his fierce determination and strong self belief that has helped him sail over hurdles, over the years.
Eventually, it may be the numbers that decide, and it may be difficult for Paes to find favour from the numbers.
Anyway, it is common knowledge that Paes loves a challenge.
He is ready for a fight!