Portsmouth and Plymouth share four goals in an eventful first leg of their League Two play-off semi-final.
Match ends, Portsmouth 2, Plymouth Argyle 2.
Second Half ends, Portsmouth 2, Plymouth Argyle 2.
Attempt missed.
Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Assisted by Danny Hollands.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle.
Craig Tanner replaces Jamille Matt.
Offside, Portsmouth.
Danny Hollands tries a through ball, but Gary Roberts is caught offside.
Attempt missed.
Gareth Evans (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the right.
Assisted by Enda Stevens with a cross.
Attempt saved.
Ben Davies (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Assisted by Adam McGurk.
Offside, Portsmouth.
Adam Barton tries a through ball, but Enda Stevens is caught offside.
Ben Purrington (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card.
Danny Hollands (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ben Purrington (Plymouth Argyle).
Attempt missed.
Adam McGurk (Portsmouth) header from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left.
Assisted by Ben Davies with a cross following a corner.
Corner, Portsmouth.
Conceded by Gregg Wylde.
Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Carl McHugh (Plymouth Argyle).
Substitution, Portsmouth.
Adam McGurk replaces Marc McNulty.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle.
Ben Purrington replaces Hiram Boateng.
Michael Doyle (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Hiram Boateng (Plymouth Argyle).
Attempt missed.
Gareth Evans (Portsmouth) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Enda Stevens (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Jake Jervis (Plymouth Argyle).
Offside, Portsmouth.
Christian Burgess tries a through ball, but Marc McNulty is caught offside.
Attempt blocked.
Kal Naismith (Portsmouth) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Assisted by Enda Stevens.
Offside, Plymouth Argyle.
Curtis Nelson tries a through ball, but Jamille Matt is caught offside.
Delay over.
They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Jake Jervis (Plymouth Argyle) because of an injury.
Attempt blocked.
Danny Hollands (Portsmouth) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Attempt missed.
Kal Naismith (Portsmouth) right footed shot from more than 35 yards misses to the left.
Assisted by Danny Hollands.
Substitution, Portsmouth.
Kal Naismith replaces Kyle Bennett.
Attempt missed.
Carl McHugh (Plymouth Argyle) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Gary Sawyer (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Danny Hollands (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Gary Sawyer (Plymouth Argyle).
Corner, Portsmouth.
Conceded by Luke McCormick.
Attempt saved.
Marc McNulty (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner.
Assisted by Gary Roberts.
Gareth Evans (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle).
Corner, Plymouth Argyle.
Conceded by Adam Barton.
Portsmouth 2, Plymouth Argyle 2.
Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) converts the penalty with a left footed shot to the top left corner.
Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Penalty Portsmouth.
Marc McNulty draws a foul in the penalty area.
Penalty conceded by Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle) after a foul in the penalty area.
Attempt blocked.
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.
Assisted by Marc McNulty.
Attempt missed.
Gareth Evans (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the right side of the box is too high.
Assisted by Adam Barton.
Gareth Evans (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Carl McHugh (Plymouth Argyle).
Second Half begins Portsmouth 1, Plymouth Argyle 2.
First Half ends, Portsmouth 1, Plymouth Argyle 2.
Attempt blocked.
Graham Carey (Plymouth Argyle) left footed shot from a difficult angle and long range on the right is blocked.
Adam Barton (Portsmouth) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Adam Barton (Portsmouth).
Jake Jervis (Plymouth Argyle) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Danny Hollands (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jamille Matt (Plymouth Argyle).
Offside, Portsmouth.
Danny Hollands tries a through ball, but Marc McNulty is caught offside.
Attempt missed.
Graham Carey (Plymouth Argyle) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left from a direct free kick.
Danny Hollands (Portsmouth) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Danny Hollands (Portsmouth).
Graham Carey (Plymouth Argyle) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) hits the left post with a right footed shot from the centre of the box.
Assisted by Ben Davies with a cross.