 
Vijay TagoreIn a fiery monologue laced with a four-letter word, Preity repeatedly threatened to sack Bangar in the presence of the team he is supposed to lead.
| Mumbai Mirror | May 12, 2016, 09.14 AM ISTAngry Preity lashes out at her IPL teams' coach over match loss
A furious Preity Zinta tore into Punjab Kings XI coach Sanjay Bangar after the team's one-run loss to Royal Challengers Bangalore at Mohali in a shocking rant laden with expletives and threats of sacking.
Preity, upset with Bangar's choice of batting order in Monday's cliff-hanger that left her team languishing at the bottom of the Indian Premier League table, stormed the team dug-out and lashed out at the coach in the presence of players and support staff.
Both Preity and Bangar denied the incident on Wednesday.
However, the same was independently confirmed to this newspaper by four witnesses who were present in the dug-out.
None of them, for obvious reasons, were willing to be quoted.
Sources said Preity took exception to Bangar's decision to send Farhaan Behardien ahead of Axar Patel and blamed the coach for the team's loss.
Both Preity and Bangar refused to be interviewed for this story, choosing to deny the incident through cryptic text messages.
"It was a long monologue with a four-letter being used liberally.
Everybody was stunned as Preity repeatedly threatened to sack Sanjay.
Nobody spoke a word.
Sanjay cut a sorry figure which was sad because he was surrounded by young players and support staff he is supposed to lead.
It was rather unbecoming of the team owner," said a source who was witness to the incident.
Gallantly led by skipper Murali Vijay , who scored 89, Preity's team had come close to knocking off the required 176-run target set by Virat Kohli's Royal Challengers , but fell short of the mark by one run with South African Behardien remaining unbeaten on nine off seven balls.
Preity's contention was that Axar, who had smashed a seven-ball 21 against Kolkata Knight Riders the previous week, could have finished off the game.
What shocked everyone present was the language laced with "f**k yous" and threats that Preity used and the fact that she chose to upbraid the coach in the presence of the team he is supposed to lead.
The world over, owners leave the coaches and managers to handle the teams and a coach being humiliated in the manner Bangar was in the presence of his players is unthinkable.
In all major football leagues across Europe, managers and coaches have the final say on who plays and in what position, as it is assumed that they know better.
Bangar has played 12 Tests and 15 one-day internationals and was part of the 2003 World Cup squad.
He is also Team India's current batting coach.
On the other hand, Priety one is not sure has ever held a bat or a ball when not posing for publicity shots.
In fact, her Twitter status introduces her as -- "Actor, Producer, Writer, Entrepreneur, Human Being and Cricket fan!"
Even the angry outburst did not help Preity calm down.
She did not attend the presentation ceremony and sent her mother instead.
While team manager Varoon Parmar said Preity's mother was sent for the presentation party because it was Mother's Day, he forgot that the game took place a day after the Mother's Day - May 8.
Kings XI Punjab co-owner Ness Wadia did not respond to repeated calls, but Mohit Burman, the other co-owner, said it should be understood that the owners are passionate about the game.
"I left immediately after the match, but I don't think there was any serious incident.
Next day, both Sanjay and Preity met and all was normal between them," Burman said.
Kings XI Punjab are currently at the bottom of the points table, with three wins and six points from 10 games with no chance of qualifying for the play-offs.
It is their second consecutive poor season after the 2014 high when they had reached the final.. WATCH: Preity Zinta's emotional IPL moments - TOI Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia