Outstanding catch by Billings at deep midwicket after a powerful slog from Dhoni!
The ball would have easily cleared the rope had it not been for the Englishman, who runs towards his right and 23:01 (IST) FIFTY Ajinkya Rahane continues his golden form with the bat, joining the likes of Warner, Rohit as he brings up his fifth half-century of IPL 2016.
Tiwary goes for the slog towards midwicket, where an athletic Sam Billings takes a fine catch — diving to 22:31 (IST) OUT!
Pitched outside off, the ball moves further away from Khawaja, who comes down the track while looking to 21:26 (IST) OUT!
And skipper Duminy follows Carlos Brathwaite to the dugout shortly after, falling short of his crease by a considerable margin at the striker's end while coming back for a second run.
Carlos Brathwaite goes for yet another big hit after a flurry of sixes, but miscues a slower one from Boland towards Perera at deep square-leg.
Pant misses the straight delivery that was headed towards his off-stump while playing across the line, and the
After 19 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 160/3 ( Ajinkya Rahane 59 , Thisara Perera 13)
A brilliant running catch by Sam Billings at deep midwicket results in the dismissal of Pune captain Dhoni for 27 off 20, with Pune needing another 17 to win from 11 balls with seven wickets in hand.
Perera is the new batsman at the crease, and launches the first delivery that he faces over long-on for a huge six!
Second six for Perera, this time slogging the ball towards midwicket off a pitched up delivery!
Outstanding catch by Billings at deep midwicket after a powerful slog from Dhoni!
The ball would have easily cleared the rope had it not been for the Englishman, who runs towards his right and dives high in the air to complete one of the best catches of the tournament so far!
Dhoni departs for 27 off 20, as Pune lose their third with 146 on board at the start of the 19th over.
After 18 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 146/2 ( Ajinkya Rahane 58 , MS Dhoni (C) (W) 27)
Shami returns to the attack for the 18th over, with Pune really needing a couple of big hits at this stage to get the pressure off their back.
That's a massive blow for Delhi, with Shami trying to follow Rahane, and pitching it wide outside leg.
Keeper Samson dives, and fails to stop the ball from travelling towards the fine-leg boundary rope.
Length ball from Shami, and the Pune skipper comes down the track and whacks it towards long-on!
Brathwaite saves a couple of runs for Delhi with a fine stop at deep third-man off the fifth.
After 17 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 126/2 ( Ajinkya Rahane 57 , MS Dhoni (C) (W) 13)
Good tight over by Imran Tahir in the 16th, conceding just four off it, as Pune need another 43 from the last 24 balls.
Mishra maintains the high pressure levels on Pune with an equally good over, not giving any room for Rahane and Dhoni to send the ball towards the orbit.
Rahane survives a run-out chance, with Mishra failing to collect the ball while breaking the stumps at the non-striker's end.
After 15 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 116/2 ( Ajinkya Rahane 52 , MS Dhoni (C) (W) 9)
Tiwary departs for 21 off 18 while looking to slog a googly from Tahir towards deep midwicket, with Sam Billings taking an athletic diving catch at that region.
Pawan Negi is introduced in the following over, Dhoni comes down the track in the second ball, and launches the ball high over the umpire's head for a massive six!
FIFTY Ajinkya Rahane continues his golden form with the bat, joining the likes of Warner, Rohit as he brings up his fifth half-century of IPL 2016.
Gets to the mark with a single off the last ball of the 14th over, reaching the milestone in 38 deliveries.
Tiwary goes for the slog towards midwicket, where an athletic Sam Billings takes a fine catch — diving to his front — to effect the second dismissal of the innings with 104 on board.
After 12 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 94/1 ( Ajinkya Rahane 41 , Saurabh Tiwary 19)
Tiwary comes down the track, and lofts the ball over wide long-on off Mishra, who makes things worse by overstepping in the following delivery.
Rahane attempts to whack the following delivery as well, but can only get a single after Sam Billings takes an easy catch at deep midwicket.
Seven conceded by the South African leggie in his first over, with Pune needing another 69 to win from 48 balls.
After 9 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 65/1 ( Ajinkya Rahane 30 , Saurabh Tiwary 5)
The dangerous Amit Mishra is introduced in the seventh over, and Delhi will look to get a breakthrough at this stage.
Khawaja gets a stumping scare in the fifth ball, but keeps his foot firmly grounded inside the crease.
Mishra gets the key breakthrough, removing Khawaja for 30 in the ninth over, with Pune losing their first wicket with 59 on board.
The consistent Saurabh Tiwary gets off the mark with a four towards third man off the first ball that he faces.
Pitched outside off, the ball moves further away from Khawaja, who comes down the track while looking to muscle it down the ground, with wicketkeeper Samson promptly removing the bails off the stumps.
Departs for a lively 30 off 27, as Pune lose their first wicket with 59 on board in the ninth over.
After 6 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 50/0 ( Ajinkya Rahane 25 , Usman Khawaja 25)
Mohammed Shami is introduced into the attack for the fourth over, and Rahane pulls the short ball outside leg towards fine-leg, with the ball beating keeper Samson's gloves on its way.
Yet another expensive over by Shami, conceding 12 runs, including two fours, as the 50 comes up for Pune without the loss of a wicket at the end of powerplay!
After 3 overs,Rising Pune Supergiants 16/0 ( Ajinkya Rahane 7 , Usman Khawaja 9)
Rising Pune Supergiants have opted to make a change in their opening slot, with skipper Dhoni sending Usman Khawaja as Ajinkya Rahane's opening partner in place of Saurabh Tiwary, who probably will come in at number three.
Jayant Yadav bowls the first over, and flicks the second ball towards fine-leg to bring up the first boundary of the day.
Carlos Brathwaite bowls the second over, and Khawaja gets his first boundary as well, cutting the third ball towards backward point.
Good final over by Boland, conceding just five off the 19th, including five singles.
Flighted, and pitched along the middle stump, and the ball disappears over wide long-on!
Full toss out side leg, and Brathwaite sends it flying high over midwicket.
Boland comes in bowl the first over, and Brathwaite displays his immense power with a flat six over the bowler's head, carving the shot out of a half-volley just outside off.
Ravi Ashwin comes in to bowl his final over of the day.
Delhi lose their seventh wicket with 143 on board, with Jayant Yadav departing for one off three after Negi calls for a risky second run, with a direct hit from Saurabh Tiwary towards the non-striker's end doing the job.
And skipper Duminy follows Carlos Brathwaite to the dugout shortly after, falling short of his crease by a considerable margin at the striker's end while coming back for a second run.
And Delhi lose the set pair in quick fashion in the 17th over.
Carlos Brathwaite goes for yet another big hit after a flurry of sixes, but miscues a slower one from Boland towards Perera at deep square-leg.
Perera fumbles with the ball in what should have ideally been an easy catch, but gets the big wicket in the end.
It's been ages since a boundary was last hit till the 12th over, and Delhi will look to boost their run-rate, especially with Billings on strike.
Straight delivery pitched between middle and off, and Billings hammers it over midwicket!
Consecutive sixes for Billings — coming down the track and hammering the faster delivery outside off for a straight hit!
Billings attempts a reverse hit — completely changing his stance even before Bhatia got into his delivery stride.
The Englishman departs after a valuable 24 off 15, as Delhi lose their fourth with 110 on board in the 15th over.
Meanwhile, Brathwaite has walked out to bat now, and Delhi will need another special knock from him to put them in a commanding position.
Bhatia strikes in the very first over after the time-out, with Karun Nair slicking a half-volley towards deep cover, where Thisara Perera takes a fine running catch.
Stumping scare for Duminy in the next delivery, with Dhoni whipping the bails off in a flash, but to no avail.
Meanwhile, Sam Billings is the new batsman at the crease, and gets off the mark with a double off his first ball.
Murugan Ashwin is introduced in the attack for the next over, and concedes eight runs in the form of ones and twos.
Does not get enough power to clear the boundary rope, and Thisara Perera takes a brilliant running catch at deep cover.
Karun departs for 32 off 23 balls, as Delhi lose their third with 65 on board in the 10th over!
Stand-in skipper Duminy walks out to bat after Samson's dismissal as Ravi Ashwin is handed the ball for the first over after powerplay.
Duminy and Karun are dealing in singles at the moment, with five of them coming off Bhatia's first over.
Boland comes in to bowl in the fourth over, and gets hammered for a four off beautiful cover drive by Nair off a full, wide delivery!!
More runs conceded by Boland, with Samson guiding the penultimate ball down towards fine leg off a short delivery.
Boland removes Samson off the last ball of the powerplay, with the batsman giving a half-hearted push to a length delivery towards midwicket, where Ravi Ashwin takes the catch!
Rishabh Pant and Sanju Samson walk out to bat for Delhi.
Karun Nair walks out to bat, and gets off the mark in style with a boundary off an outside edge towards third man.
Pant misses the straight delivery that was headed towards his off-stump while playing across the line, and the timber gets knocked over.
Pant departs for two off eight, as Delhi lose their first wicket with 13 on board in the third over.
DD XI : Sam Billings, Rishabh Pant, Sanju Samson, Karun Nair, JP Duminy (c), Pawan Negi, Carlos Brathwaite, Jayant Yadav, Amit Mishra, Mohammed Shami, Imran Tahir.
Pune XI : Ajinkya Rahane, Saurabh Tiwary, George Bailey, Usman Khawaja, MS Dhoni (c,wk), Thisara Perera, Rajat Bhatia, Scott Boland, Ravichandran Ashwin, Murugan Ashwin, Ashoke Dinda
Two changes in RPS XI — George Bailey and Usman Khawaja replace Steve Smith (who has been ruled out of the remainder of the tournament) and Peter Handscomb.
Meanwhile, Delhi skipper Zaheer Khan has been rested for this match, and South African all-rounder JP Duminy is captaining in his place.
Rising Pune Supergiants win the toss, and skipper MS Dhoni elects to bowl first.
Hello and welcome to Firstpost's live coverage of the 33rd match of the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) 2016 between Delhi Daredevils and Rising Pune Supergiants at the Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi on Thursday.
Can Delhi Daredevils march their way to the top of the table, toppling Kolkata Knight Riders from the same, or will the MS Dhoni-led Rising Pune Supergiants pull off something of an upset to delay their likely exit from the group stage a little further ahead.
PREVIEW : Fresh from two consecutive victories, a rejuvenated Delhi Daredevils (DD) will take on injury-ravaged Rising Pune Supergiants (RPS) in their last group stage outing of the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) at the Feroze Shah Kotla Stadium in New Delhi on Thursday.
With five wins out of seven games, the home side have reached a new momentum after registering consecutive wins against Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) and Gujarat Lions to occupy the second spot in the team standings.
On the other hand, having lost key players like Kevin Pietersen, Steve Smith, Faf du Plessis and Mitchell Marsh, the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led Pune franchise have struggled to find the momentum going in their favour, managing only two wins from eight outings.
Unlike the previous seasons, the Daredevils have approached each game with a horses for courses approach, making the right changes under the watchful eyes of team mentor Rahul Dravid and coach Paddy Upton.
The credit for Delhi's turnaround also goes to skipper Zaheer Khan, who has managed to take early breakthroughs while opening the bowling and also at the death.
The franchise's decision to invest in the youngsters has also borne fruit in the tournament so far.
Young Rishabh Pant and Sanju Samson have been a revelation in the batting order while leg-spinner Amit Mishra and his left-arm partner Shahbaz Nadeem have been impressive in containing the rival batsmen and also picking up wickets at regular intervals.
The overseas players have also contributed to Delhi's success with South African keeper-batsman Quinton de Kock providing decent starts to the team.
His Protea teammates — Imran Tahir, JP Duminy and Chris Morris — have also played a pivotal role in the side's success.
West Indian hitman Carlos Braithwate, who was included for the match against KKR, enthralled the Delhi crowd with his all-round efforts — 34 from 11 balls and three wickets — to pocket the man of the match award.
On the other hand, with just six more matches to go in the league stage, Dhoni's brigade will have their task cut out for Thursday's game.
Left with very little to choose from, the team will bank on a good start from the likes of Ajinkya Rahane, George Bailey and Usman Khwaja, apart from Dhoni himself in the middle order.
Even if the batters have done a decent job, the Pune franchise have found it tough to defend with the bowling unit letting Dhoni down.
Senior off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin has been a shadow of his previous self while pacer Ashok Dinda and Thisara Perera have been milked for runs by the opposition batters.