Kolkata Knight Riders win by 7 runs
Great game of cricket!
Kolkata Knight Riders just sneaking home thanks to Andre Russell's brilliant bowling efforts that saw him take four wickets and with that the purple cap.
But the foundation of this win was laid early by their openers Gambhir and Uthappa whose massive opening stand propelled the Knight Riders to a score of 164.
Maxwell's heroics threatened to take the game away from the hosts, but crucial breakthroughs meant Gautam Gambhir's boys register another win at the Eden Gardens
Russell picks up another Swapnil Singh lbw b Russell 0 (1b 0x4 0x6)
What a last over from Andre Russell
Gurkeerat Singh run out 11 (11b 1x4 0x6)
Punjab are capitulating in Kolkata.
Need 10 runs from three deliveries now
Axar Patel is run out AR Patel run out 21 (7b 1x4 2x6)
Big blow for Kings XI Punjab, they need 11 runs from 4 balls
After 19 overs,Punjab 153/6 ( Gurkeerat Singh Mann 10 , Axar Patel 20)
Kings XI Punjab need 12 runs off the last over.
Miller fails to clear long on.
The third umpire had a decision to make about the height of the delivery, but he adjudges in favour of the home side
Piyush Chawla has been Gambhir's go-to man tonight
After 16 overs,Punjab 122/5 ( David Miller 11 , Gurkeerat Singh Mann 1)
Kolkata Knight Riders have managed to get rid of the dangerous Glen Maxwell as the game looks set to go down to the wire.
Kings Xi Punjab need 43 from the last four overs
Maxwell misses Chawla's incoming delivery and the umpire has an easy decision to make.
Huge blow for Kings XI Punjab
After 13 overs,Punjab 98/4 ( Glenn Maxwell 51 , David Miller 7)
Glen Maxwell is looking ominous and looks to hold the key for Kings XI Punjab.
His big hitting has brought Punjab back into the contest and put the pressure back on Kolkata Knight Riders
What a time to hit form.
Brilliantly paced innings by the Australian.
Clearly holds the key for Kings XI Punjab now
After 9 overs,Punjab 53/4 ( Glenn Maxwell 13 , )
Kings XI Punjab have been pegged back.
Saha and Maxwell seemed to be building a good partnership before Saha was dismissed.
David Miller is the new batsman
Saha was kept guessing throughout the over by Piyush Chawla who eventually gets the better of Saha, who tries to sweep a delivery turning away from him.
The ball takes the inside edge before tumbling the stumps
After 6 overs,Punjab 37/3 ( Wriddhiman Saha (W) 13 , Glenn Maxwell 11)
Maxwell and Saha are leading Kings Xi Punjab's fight back after a disastrous start to the innings.
The Kings though need these two to stick around.
Someone needs to match the Gambhir-Uthappa partnership that helped Kolkata Knight Riders set up a score of 164.
After 4 overs,Punjab 16/3 ( Wriddhiman Saha (W) 2 , Glenn Maxwell 1)
Kings XI Punjab need to settle down as early wickets have rocked their chase.
M Vijay c Shakib Al Hasan b Morkel 6 (11b 1x4 0x6)
Vijay tries to smash a swinging delivery tothe fence but fails to make a telling connection as Shakib al Hassan takes an easy catch at mid-off.
Kolkata Knight Riders are on top at Eden Gardens
Manan Vohra departs c Shakib Al Hasan b Russell 0 (5b 0x4 0x6)
A tame effort to clear the mid-wicket boundary ends in the hands of Shakib al Hasan as Kings XI Punjab are in trouble early on
Stoinis departs c Chawla b Russell 0 (3b 0x4 0x6)
Early breakthrough for the Knight Riders, Stoinis fails to middle the ball as mid-off takes an easy catch
After 20 overs Kolkata Knight Riders 164/3
Great job by Kings XI Punjab to pull Kolkata Knight Riders back and keep two big hitters Yusuf Pathan and Andre Russel quiet.
Kings Xi Punjab need 165 runs to win at Eden Gardens
Robin Uthappa is run out for 70 (49b 6x4 2x6)
Complete miscommunication from the two KKR batsman.
Mohit Sharma hits the stumps after Uthappa charges more than half-way up the pitch, while Yusuf Pathan wasn't even looking at his partner.
Second run out for the hosts today
After 16 overs,Kolkata 128/1 ( Robin Uthappa (W) 68 , Yusuf Pathan 4)
Robin Uthappa has taken charge of the Kolkata Knight Riders innings after, Gautam Gambhir's departure.
New batsman Yusuf Pathan is still settling down.
Murali Vijay isn't making his life any easy by employing the spinners.
Can Kings XI Punjab restrict the hosts to below 160?
Kings XI Punjab needed an inspiration and they got it from Glenn Maxwell.
Brilliant piece of fielding from the Australian as Gautam Gambhir departs
Yusuf Pathan is the new bastman
After 13 overs,Kolkata 100/0 ( Robin Uthappa (W) 46 , Gautam Gambhir (C) 53)
Gambhir completes his half century, Robin Uthappa not far behind as well.
Kings XI Punjab are running out of ideas at Eden Gardens
Gautam Gambhir is nearing his half century as Robin Uthappa has complimented his skipper brilliantly.
Kolkata Knight Riders have a great platform now to simply explode and set up huge total for Kings XI Punjab to chase
After 10 overs,Kolkata 74/0 ( Robin Uthappa (W) 33 , Gautam Gambhir (C) 43
Captain Gautam Gambhir is leading Kolkata Knight Riders charge.
A brilliant six off the last ball of the 10th over shows Gambhir is preparing to cut loose
Gambir and Uthappa laying the foundation for Kolkata Knight Riders again
Gurkeerat and Axar Patel have applied the breaks on the Kolkata Knight Riders scoring.
Uthappa is looking to change gears here.
After a lucky escape on the second ball when his lofted shot fell short of long on, Uthappa finds the boundary on the last ball of the 8th over.
After 6 overs, Kolkata Kight Riders 40/0 (Gautam Gambhir 27, Robin Uthappa 13)
End of the powerplay and its a below par one for the Knight Riders by their own standards.
KKR averaged 48 in the powerplay so far in this IPL.
But the hosts will be glad not to have lost any wickets
Hat-trick hero from the last game for Kings XI Punjab, Axar Patel bowls a solid first over.
It will be interesting to see the contest between him and a Gautam Gambhir who is looking in the mood tonight
Gambhir is in great nick at the Eden Gardens.
After two glorious shots on the off side in the last over, Gambhir has played two delightful flicks on the leg side in the 3rd over.
Kolkata Knight Riders are out with their regular opening pair of Gambir and Uthappa.
Mohit Sharma and Sandeep Sharma have opened the bowling for the Kings XI Punjab in Kolkata
Gambhir with the evening's first boundary.
Slight width offered by Mohit Sharma and Gambhir pierces the gap on the off-side as the ball rolls towards the extra-cover boundary.
This was the visitors Kings XI Punjab warming up ahead of this game.
Must win match for the men from Mohali.
Kings XI Punjab XI: M Vijay, M Vohra, MP Stoinis, G Maxwell, D Miller, A Patel, W Saha, GM Singh, M Sharma, Sandeep Sharma, S Singh
Kolkata Knight Riders XI: G Gambhir, R Uthappa, M Pandey, S Yadav, S Al Hasan, Y Pathan, A Russell, P Chawla, U Yadav, B Hogg, M Morkel
Kings XI Punjab have also made two changes to their side.
Swapnil SIngh replaces KC Cariappa, Manan Vohra comes in for the injured Shaun Marsh
Shakib al Hassan and Brad Hogg come in for Kolkata Knight Riders in place of Chris Lynn and Sunil Narine
Kings XI Punjab have won the toss and Murali Vijay has opted to bowl first.
Kolkata Knight Riders are back on their home patch at the Eden Gardens.
The KKR players are flexing their muscles ahead of big game today.
Can Andre Russell make the difference for Kolkata Knight Riders against Kings XI Punjab today?
Hello and welcome to the coverage of the IPL 9 match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Kings XI Punjab in Kolkata.
Match starts at 8 PM IST.
Follow this space for live scores and updates.