ICT won their last meeting four weeks ago 2-0, with the other two meetings this season both draws How to follow: Listen on BBC Radio Scotland 810MW/DAB/online; live text commentary on BBC Sport website Inverness Caledonian Thistle can welcome back fit-again Danny Williams after the winger missed last week's 4-1 win at Partick Thistle with injury.
Iain Vigurs is suspended, Alex Fisher injured, while Aaron Doran will not return before the end of the season.
Assistant manager Gordon Young will take charge of relegated United after the departure of Mixu Paatelainen.
Eight of his players have already been told they will not have their contracts renewed at the end of the season.
Edward Ofere, Callum Morris, Guy Demel, Ryan Dow, John Rankin, Euan Spark, Joe McGovern or Florent Sinama Pongolle will all be moving on.
The only out-of-contract player not on the released list was goalkeeper Eiji Kawashima, whose future remains unclear.
Loan players Kyle Knoyle and Billy Mckay will return to their parent clubs, while Chris Erskine has signed a pre-contract deal with Partick Thistle, and Gavin Gunning and Robbie Muirhead were recently released.
Reports claim chairman Stephen Thompson has told all but four players - Blair Spittal, Luis Zwick, Scott Fraser and Simon Murray - they are free to leave.
Michal Szromnik, Sean Dillon, Paul Dixon, Paul Paton, Charlie Telfer, Henri Anier and Darko Bodul are all contracted until the end of next season, while Coll Donaldson and Mark Durnan have deals until 2018.
The shambolic demise of Dundee United puts this match as a contest way down the list of importance for the visitors.
The result of their recruitment of a new manager is the only thing that matters now.
Some players may want to put in a performance to state they can be a part of the future, but the impact of that would seem minimal at best.
There's enough evidence from this season to suggest a clear-out is needed and that's already well under way.
How any interim manager can expect to lift this side is unclear - they must wish the season would just end.
Mixu Paatelainen cited a lack of leadership, a softness in this squad.
Players simply not taking responsibility.
It's easy to sack a manager and shield players from blame, but the majority in that dressing-room must cringe when they look in the mirror and consider their contributions this season.
Defeat would surprise no-one.
A win would be too little, too late, worthless and possibly just rub salt in the wounds.
They need a manager with a plan of epic proportions to lift the gloom and get on track ahead of a challenging Championship campaign.
Dundee United were keen to speak to ICT boss John Hughes before they appointed PaatelainenCaley Thistle, by contrast, are finishing the season strongly.
Three wins and a draw in their last four Premiership matches is a good return.
Manager John Hughes was in the frame for the United job prior to Paatelainen's appointment, and he admitted earlier this season that he was annoyed that he wasn't allowed to talk to the Tannadice club after they made an official approach.
The sands shift so swiftly in football that it seems, for now at least, Hughes has fallen off that particular radar.
As Hughes so eloquently puts it, he is "spinning plates" right now in terms of trying to win games, retain players and recruit quality.
He is undoubtedly frustrated at the resources available to him.
He has taken the club to a first major trophy and European football yet struggles to find money to add to his squad.
That would bring in a bit more cash - something that would be very welcome as they look to start next season on the front foot.