The two Indian heavyweights lost by the identical margin in the last group match of the continental competition, after securing a berth in the Round of 16.
East Bengal's AFC Cup record remain untouched
A couple of years ago, Kolkata giants East Bengal became the first Indian team ever to enter the AFC Cup semi-finals unbeaten.
Trevor Morgan's boys won four of the six group league matches and drew the other two to finish top of their group ahead of the likes of Selangor, Tampines Rovers and Sai Gon Xuan Thanh.
In the one-legged Round of 16 match, they rode a Chidi Edeh hat-trick to thrash Myanmar's Yangon United 5-1.
A change in personnel followed in the summer, but their dream run continued and under the tutelage of new gaffer Marcos Falopa, they got the better of Semen Padang FC 2-1 on aggregate to book a place in the final four.
Their fairytale finally came to an end when they surrendered to a mighty Kuwait SC side, who would eventually go on to win the trophy.
However, before their late exit, they had become the second Indian club to reach the semi-finals of the AFC Cup after Armando Colaco's Dempo and became the first side to achieve the feat unbeaten until that point.
Their bitter rivals Mohun Bagan had not tasted defeat in the same competition this year but having given their star-studded line-up a rest, a 3-0 loss against South China on Wednesday evening meant that the Red and Golds' record remain untouched.
Bengaluru FC's worst ever run in history
Bengaluru FC who have raised the bar for the other Indian clubs in the last few seasons, already boasts two I-League titles and one Federation Cup in their trophy cabinet.
However, the club is going through a mini-crisis, losing four of their last five encounters.
On Wednesday evening, the Blues went down 3-0 against defending AFC Cup champions Johor Darul Ta'zim to lose their third match on the trot.
The Blues will face Kitchee SC in a couple of weeks' time and Sunil Chhetri and co. will have to give their best to end the season on a high note by winning a tough away tie.
Sanjoy Sen's shuffled pack was well beaten
Mohun Bagan, who failed to defend their I-League title earlier this season, are now desparate to win the Federation Cup to avoid the humiliation of ending the season trophyless.
Sanjoy Sen, the outspoken tactician, had already made his mind clear and at least eight of the club's regular members didn't take the flight to Guwahati to face South China in the last home match.
The likes of Lalkamal Bhowmick, Kean Lewis, Shouvik Ghosh, Sanjay Balmuchu and Subhash Singh were given their share of action as the former United Sports coach made wholesale changes to the first XI.
However, the reserves failed to step up and went down 3-0 to the away side in front of the empty stands of the Guwahati Stadium .
Jeje Lalpekhlua, who has been scoring at will for the last few months, was suffocated as his supply lines dried up.
Sen had earlier spoken about this fixture's importance in keeping their momentum intact but now he will have to motivate his players again as the club gets ready for possibly the last three matches of the season.
Jermaine Pennant the biggest threat for Mohun Bagan
The result may give the Green and Maroon brigade confidence ahead of the knock-out tie, but the presence of former Liverpool star Jermaine Pennant will be a major threat for Sen's side.
Pennant played as a right winger in the Stag's crucial victory against Selangor on Tuesday and was arguably the best player on the pitch.
"Jermaine was fantastic for us," V. Sundramoorthy, the coach of the Singapore side remarked after the victory.
"We could all see his class against Selangor.
And when we were under pressure in the second half, he got himself on the ball and helped us get the victory," he added.
However, the gaffer has already informed that the club will appeal against his suspension.
Jordan Webb, the prolific striker of the outfit is also expected to come back after spending a couple of weeks on the sidelines.
I-League clubs must take note of Christopher Chizoba's success
Christopher Chizoba arrived in Kolkata like hundreds of other Nigerian young footballers, dreaming to make it big for one of the Kolkata giants.
He played for Kalighat M.S.
and soon became one of the most sought after names in the circuit of five-a-side football in the city.
This season, the same forward is looking uncharacteristically prolific for Myanmar side Ayeyawady United.
The former Shillong Lajong striker has already scored six goals in the AFC Cup, including a hat-trick against Lao Toyota and a brace against Bengaluru FC.
Apart from Chizoba, a number of foreigners who had played in India in the last few seasons, have flourished elsewhere.
Former East Bengal striker Andrew Barisic had a big role to play as Eastern, guided by female coach Chan Yuen-ting, won the Hong Kong Premier League this year while former Chennaiyin FC striker Fikru Teferra has been an instant hit after his move to Bangladesh side Sheikh Russel KC.
Are the I-League clubs taking notes?