Hyderabad leads the table with 14 points from 10 matches while Delhi is in 5th spot with 10 points from 9 matches.
Hello and welcome to the live updates of the IPL match between Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Daredevils in Hyderabad on Thursday.
Chris Morris becomes the man-of-the-match.
Excellent all-round performance from the Delhi Daredevils team.
Yuvraj into the attack, Samson finishes the match in style by hitting a huge six.
Another good example of running between the wickets.
What a shot.
After 17 overs: Delhi 131 for 3.
30 needed from 24 balls.
Excellent shot from the youngster.
whipped for a single.
Excellent bouncer and it is called a wide.
Two quick runs, what a running between the wicket from these two young Indian batsmen.
Another two quick runs.
Good over so far from Mustafizur.
Bhuvi, Nehra and Mustafizur are not so effective today.
Pant on strike, flick and a single.
Pant takes a single.
Oooohhhh what a shot!!!!
Excellent shot and it is a boundary to end the over.
great shot and equally great fielding from Kane Williamson.
Pant takes a single.
Really a match on hand.
Great shot from Samson and it is a huge six.
Pant smashes the ball for two runs.
Henriques continues, de Kock takes a single.
Rishabh Pant is the new man.
Unlucky de Kock.
Sran into the attack.
Nair takes a quick single.
de Kock smashes the ball over mid-off for a boundary.
sensible cricket from de Kock.
Karun takes a single.
great shot and magnificent fielding from Kane Williamson.
Treat to watch!!!!
certain boundary saved.
Another great shoit from de Kock for a boundary.
another single and it is 50 for Delhi
Barinder Sran into the attack, de Kock takes a single.
Is it a glum shot!!!
Nehra continues, Mayank Agarwal is gone good catch from Yuvraj.
Karun Nair is the new man, off the mark straightaway.
Amazing stuff from de Kock.
What a great comeback from Delhi batsman de Kock.
Bhuvi continues, Excellent fielding from Kane Williamson.
Nehra into the attack.
what a shot from de Kock and it is a boundary.
What a great shot from de Kock and it is another boundary.
Bhuvneshwar Kumar opens the attack, Quinton de Kock on strike, excellent delivery from Bhuvi.
Wow what a way to start the proceedings.
de Kock off the mark.
Lovely shot and it is the first boundary for Delhi.
The players are out in the middle.
Let us wait and watch.
A boundary after a brief lull.
Sran is the new man.
No it is not and Ojha is dismissed.
Nehra on strike.
Morris continues, excellent ball to begin with.
Williamson is out.
Morris kicks the ball to the stumps, Bhuvneshwar Kumar is run-out.
Naman Ojha is the new man, off the mark.
Excellent stuff from Chris Morris, near miss for Williamson and Deepak Hooda.
No boundaries in sight for Hyderabad batsmen.
Shami strikes and Henriques is out LBW.
What a comeback from Delhi Daredevils bowlers!!!
another appeal and umpire says no.
Six overs to go, Mishra continues, Williamson takes a single and Yuvraj on strike, Yuvraj strikes a huge six.
It is a smashing hit from Yuvi.
Yuvraj off the mark.
Mishra continues, Dhawan smashes but only a single.
Morris into the attack.
Direct hit, players are not interested, Dhawan is safely in.
He is a intelligent bowler and mixing his deliveries well.
Excellent over under the circumstances.
Amit Mishra into the attack.
Williamson takes a single.
Duminy continues, wide to start with.
Williamson takes a single, Can Dhawan take the initiative from now, talking about him, he smashes a boundary.
Two quick runs.
Excellent from Dhawan.
Yadav back into the attack.
Innovative shot and Warner takes a single.
a misfield and it is boundary.
Yadav strikes the first blood and removes Warner for 46.
Excellent bowling from Jayant Yadav.
Morris into the attack.
Dhawan cuts for a single bringing Warner on strike, 500 runs for Warner in this IPL.
What an achievement from Warner, excellent.
Fifty for Hyderabad.
It is 3000 IPL runs for Warner.
Excellent shot from Dhawan and first boundary for Hyderabad.
Warner cuts the ball through point for the second boundary of the over.
Yadav continues.
Surprise, surprise, Jayant Yadav into the attack, Warner plays it through covers for a single.
The umpires are walking into the middle.
The man in-form David Warner and Shikhar Dhawan are at the crease.
Can Delhi bowlers remove Warner early?
All set for the toss.
Oh no Zaheer at the toss!!!
Zaheer is injured.