Gene Ormsby last played for Warrington in August 2015 Oldham (6) 10Tries: Ward, Owen Goal: Palfrey Warrington (22) 70Tries: Hill, Jullien 2, Currie 2, Evans, King 3, Lineham, Ormsby 2, Smith Goals: Gidley 6, Ratchford 3
Super League leaders Warrington ran in 13 tries as they thrashed Oldham to reach the Challenge Cup quarter-finals.
But there was to be no repeat as Chris Hill, Benjamin Jullien, Ben Currie and Rhys Evans ran in first-half tries.
George King ran in a five-minute hat-trick after the break, Gene Ormsby scored twice and Tom Lineham, Currie, Morgan Smith and Jullien all crossed.
Kurt Gidley also kicked six goals and Stefan Ratchford three for Tony Smith's Wolves, who won the trophy three times between 2009 and 2012.
Oldham could not have dreamed of a better start when Ward went over in the seventh minute, but they were up against it from the moment Jullien gave Warrington the lead just before the half hour.
Wolves were rampant after the break, running in six tries in the opening 20 minutes of the second period.
But after Ormsby, back from a loan spell at Huddersfield, Smith and Jullien completed the rout, Oldham had the final say when Gareth Owen crashed over for a consolation score with the final play of the match.
Warrington head coach Tony Smith: "They really challenged us in that first half and it took us a while to click into gear, which was down to them bullying us around.
"I was pleased that they got another try at the end as it was a harsh scoreline for the effort they put in during the first half."
Oldham coach Scott Naylor: "Tony [Smith] came into the dressing room and gave them compliments on some of the structures that they had and a lot of the things that they do.
"He said he didn't want them to lose confidence in the Championship and to take today's defeat in the right way.
"Just for him to come into the changing rooms was amazing because when he left and closed the door, you could see from the look on some of my lads faces that they were in awe."
Oldham: Lepori; Clay, Holmes, Grimshaw, Chisholm; Palfrey, Roper; Joy, Owen, Ward, Thompson, Middlehurst, Hope.
Replacements: Files, Ashton, Hughes, Gee.
Warrington: Penny; Ormsby, Evans, Jullien, Lineham; Gidley, Ratchford; Hill, Clark, Sims, Philbin, Currie, Westerman.
Replacements: King, Wilde, Smith, Cox.