By: PTI Mohali Published:May 10, 2016, 12:39
Related Videos SC Allows Students Who Appeared In NEET-I To Attempt Phase-II Samsung Galaxy J5 and J7 (2016) First Look Video State Elections: The Sober Voter Idea Exchange With Sharad Kumar
By: PTI | Mohali |
Published:May 10, 2016 12:39 pm
Chris Jordan making his IPL debut gave 52 runs from his four over spell.
(Source: BCCI/IPL)Royal Challengers Bangalore leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal termed his team’s narrow one-run win over Kings XI Punjab as crucial, saying it has kept them in the hunt in this edition of the IPL.
“Obviously, in the table, we were on the seventh position (moved to 6th after the win).
This win was very crucial for us, we got two points, we are still in the fray (to make the playoffs),” said Chahal at the post match press conference after his team snatched a nerve-wracking win here last night.
Chasing a target of 176, KXIP were cruising along with skipper Murali Vijay smashing 89 off 57 balls but Chris Jordan managed to hold on to his nerves, giving away 15 runs in the final over, in which the home team needed 17.
Asked what was the thinking behind bringing Jordan to bowl the final over, Chahal revealed, “Chris Jordan is a death bowler, even when he bowls for England.
(After discussion among team members before last over), he was told to bowl a slower one, a little bit shorter, because leg side boundary is very big and very difficult to hit.
On this wicket, batsman always wants pace and Virat (Kohli) bhai told Chris to bowl slower ones on the leg but a little bit shorter.”
The 25-year-old said the score of 175 was a good total on the Mohali wicket.
“On this wicket, 170-175 is a very good total.
Even before the match, we planned 160-165 on this wicket,” Chahal, who returned with figures of 4-0-30-1, said.
Meanwhile, Kings XI Pinjab’s Marcus Stoinis rued his team’s one-run defeat, saying “this was an opportunity we missed”.
Needing four off the last delivery, Stoinis (34, 22 balls) could take only two.
On whether they were expecting Jordan to bowl the final over, as Varun Aaron also had one over left, Stoinis said, “In our calculations, we knew it was one of those two guys bowling that over.
Doesn’t really take you by surprise, you just go with what happens.
But yeah, you have plans for each one and you have sort of an idea what they are going to try and bowl”.
Stoinis heaped praise on Jordan, saying “he bowled well and did the job for his team”.
On how well he has adapted to the conditions, being new to the IPL, Stoinis said, “I think you are forced to adapt or you get kicked out pretty quickly.
I am enjoying every opportunity because you’ve got to adapt really quickly to succeed in every game at a higher level.
My game has changed a little bit, every game situation is a good test.
I think the key is consistent development and just improve all the time.”
Stoinis insisted that he was not entirely new to the sub-continent conditions.
“I was here last year, I played a few Australia A games here as well.
But this is the first time I have been here for an extended period.
The conditions aren’t too foreign, the pressure may be a bit different compared to the Big Bash and that sort of stuff.
The game is very similar,” he said.
Stoinis said it was important to take tips from the senior players and incorporate those into your game.
“I think the key is to talk to experienced players around you.
We’ve got Virender Sehwag, Murali Vijay and some great experienced bowlers as well.
I think the key for me has been to talk to these guys and try to use these tips in your training and then put into the game,” he explained.