The stage was near-perfect for M.S.
Dhoni’s famed finishing blows.
However, the Rising Pune Supergiants captain was denied the freedom by the spirited and accurate Sunrisers Hyderabad bowling attack as the latter recorded a creditable four-run win at the Dr. YSR ACA-VDCA Stadium here on Tuesday.
Chasing a target of 138, useful contributions from George Bailey and R. Ashwin gave the Pune outfit a clear chance after the early blows, but the Sunrisers attack produced another standout performance.
Bhuvneshwar Kumar lived up to his reputation as the breakthrough bowler and was also miserly in his first spell (3-1-5-1).
He bowled a beauty on off-stump to force the in-form Ajinkya Rahane to snick the third ball of the innings to wicketkeeper Naman Ojha.
Usman Khawaja was then run out by a brilliant throw by Deepak Hooda from the deep, reducing Supergiants to 19 for two.
Second-best Earlier, leg-spinner Adam Zampa’s dream spell of six for 19 restricted Sunrisers to 137 for eight in its quota of overs.
His was the best performance by a bowler in this edition, and the second-best overall after Sohail Tanvir’s six for 14 for Rajasthan Royals against Chennai Super Kings at Jaipur in the 2008 edition.
Sunrisers did not get the blazing start it was looking for as David Warner’s attempted big drive off left-armer R.P.
Singh ended in a catch to wicketkeeper M.S.
Dhoni.
After the first five overs, Sunrisers was 21 for one, a phase when fast bowler Ashoke Dinda bowled an impressive spell of 3-0-11-0.
In the 11th over, off-spinner Ashwin induced a big hit from Dhawan with a delivery that floated away, the ball finding long-on.
In fact, Dhoni solved the Ashwin ‘puzzle’ too, giving him four overs at a stretch and the offie responded in style.
The 24-year-old Zampa then took over, finishing with a haul of six wickets, including that of the big-hitting Yuvraj.
In fact, the Australian was on a hat-trick in his third over after sending back Kane Williamson and Moises Henriques off successive deliveries.
Both fell to similar strokes — lofting straight to the deep fielder.
The former had laboured to 31 off 37 balls.
When given the chance to bowl the final over, Zampa picked up three more wickets to cap an incredible effort.