It was a classic Rahul Dravid-Paddy Upton tactic that, unfortunately, blew up in their face © BCCI
There was a sense of deja vu when JP Duminy, senior Delhi Daredevils' all-rounder, walked out for toss and announced a lengthy list of changes in their playing XI against a depleted Rising Pune Supergiants.
Apart from 'unfit' captain Zaheer Khan, who he was replacing, three other in-form players from Delhi Daredevils' last game - opener Quinton de Kock, all-rounder Chris Morris and spinner Shahbaz Nadeem - were warming the bench in order to "get the team combination right".
A classic Rahul Dravid-Paddy Upton tactic that, unfortunately, blew up in their face.
Agreed that there is no harm in testing your reserve players ahead of the knockouts, but Delhi's move was ill-timed.
High on confidence, the rejuvenated Daredevils team had a rare opportunity to wrap up their home games at the Feroz Shah Kotla with an imposing win.
Two points off the win against a struggling outfit like Supergiants would have taken them to top of the points table.
A victory against bottom-ranked Kings XI Punjab next, would have all but guaranteed a berth in the play-offs.
But the management's ploy to rest four of their top performers - in a match which should have been treated as just another must-win contest instead of an opportunity to experiment - cost them dear.
A break in momentum, especially after the halfway mark in the competition, doesn't always bode well for the teams.
Dravid and Upton would know this better than anyone else.
Back in 2014, Rajasthan Royals paid the price for chopping and changing their squad consistently in order to test their bench strength in their final set of games.
Sitting pretty in the top half of the point tally with five games still in hand, Royals' experimentation saw them losing four of them, and with that, the chance to qualify for the playoffs after a dramatic loss to Mumbai Indians.
It might be too early to conclude if the Daredevils are going down the same path.
However, it is certain that if they want to end their three-year long dry spell and secure a spot in the qualifiers, Delhi will have to build their XI around a settled nucleus and seize easy opportunities such as these to collect valuable points instead of leaving it all to the final minute.
The management's move to rest four key players backfired but Duminy, the stand-in Daredevils' skipper, vehemently defended the decision.
"It's just the combinations," Dumniy offered with a nonchalant shrug, during the post-match press conference after their seven-wicket loss to Pune on Thursday (May 5).
"Unfortunately a few guys had to miss out because of the combinations, we wanted to make sure our combination was right.
And as a selection group, we felt that this was the best XI for the conditions and against this opposition.
Unfortunately things didn't go our way, we missed a few chances especially in the first six overs.
Missed a few run-outs, that could have changed the game.
But I thought we did well to take it to the last over," the South African explained.
Duminy however revealed that Zaheer, who was carrying a slight niggle, was rested as precautionary measure.
"We're playing a game again in two days time, and it's the same status with Chris Morris.
It's been a long first half of the IPL so we just want to make sure that we're keeping guys fresh.
There's a long, and very important part of the tournament to come, so we just want to make sure they're all ready to go," he noted.
Keeping de Kock out meant the team did not have an anchor at the top of the innings.
While Duminy held one end after the initial wobble, a series of cameos from the other partner propelled the home team to 162, but it eventually proved too less in front of an in-form Supergiants' batting line-up.
Karun Nair fell after a quickfire 32 of 23.
Duminy top-scored with a little over run-a-ball 34.
Sam Billings chipped in 24 off 15 before Carlos Brathwaite hammered 20 in eight balls.
Negi justified his multi-million price tag and added the finishing touches with 19 off 12.
While the individual numbers leave an impression of them being decent contributions, the fall of wickets in quick succession towards the end hampered the home team's chances of going with the flow and picking those extra runs in death overs.
Pune made a spectacular comeback to pick up three key wickets at the cost of just 28 runs.
Despite the cameos, the visitors' bowlers struck at regular intervals and did not allow the home team to carry forward the momentum and race to a monumental total.
Duminy rued the fact that his team fell considerably short of a competitive score.
"In hindsight we probably were 20 runs short on that wicket with the start that we had.
We were at about 107 in 13 overs, so you probably bank yourself to get to about 180.
But unfortunately we stumbled and lost a few wickets towards the back end of the innings which put the brakes on for us," he said.
Delhi did stretch the opposition to the last over in what seemed like a fairly moderate chase for Pune's batting.
And if it is any consolation, the 'close' game will help them with their net run-rate, albeit marginally.
Additionally, the Daredevils have an extra game in hand as compared to their near rivals who have all played nine each.
And to top it all, they have the best NRR amongst the top-four.
The hiccup tonight should serve as a learning experience ahead of a set of away games before they return to Raipur - their 'second home' this season.
With ten points already in the bank, Delhi have the luxury of as many as six chances to build an unassailable lead as well as a settle upon a core team.
That is six chances to redeem the lost glory.
After initial T20 fatigue, the fans are back: Shukla
Points table can change quickly: Bhatia
Bowlers, Rahane set up Supergiants' win
Yuvraj in focus as rejuvenated Sunrisers take on Lions
DD vs RPS - As it happened
No manual scoreboards at Green Park this time
LATEST NEWS