For someone who has been to the CAS and returned victorious against both the national and international athletics federations, fighting the system should be regular stuff.
But, Dutee Chand, who has been knocking on the doors of Olympic qualification and made the athletics fraternity in India sit up and take notice of her consistently impressive timings in the 100m, remains wary.
A year after she was cleared by the Court of Arbitration for Sports to participate in women's competitions, the 20-year-old admits she trains alone, doesn't trust anyone but her coach and prefers solitude to company even during competitions and camps.
She is also upfront about the federation's lack of faith in her abilities and questions getting assistance so late in the day.
“Last time some people took me for a ride, they can do it again.
Since returning to training, I haven't been part of a training camp run by the federation.
I have only trained at the SAI camp in Hyderabad,” Dutee said here on Wednesday.
She talks of being part of the 400m squad and the pain of being trapped by some of the other quartermilers for making them insecure with her timings in training way back in 2012-13.
She also explains how no one, barring her coach N. Ramesh, believed or supported her during her toughest days.
“The federation had sent me back home at that time.
Ramesh sir did not want me to sit idle, called me to Hyderabad and personally trained me at that time at Gopi (Chand) bhaiyya's academy.
In a way, that period helped me move from 400m to 100m.”
She has been “forced” to train in Patiala for now as part of the 4x100m relay, but she is clear about going back to Hyderabad after returning from competitions in China, Chinese Taipei and Kazakhstan.
“I hope to qualify at one of the events.
Here there is no one to fight or push me, Srabani Nanda is also concentrating more on 200m.
In China, if there are runners with timings of 11.3 seconds or faster, then it would help me get even better timing,” Dutee said.
Of her co-trainees from the 400m days, she still speaks only to M.R.
Poovamma, who she says encouraged her then and continues to do now.
“I had requested for foreign training after the National meet in Kolkata last year but no one had faith in me.
They thought the hyperandrogenism issue would come up again.
She is also aware of time running out now.
Unlike several other athletes angling for assistance under TOPS, Dutee admits there is little use of it now.
“Once the competitions are over, there will be less than a month for the Olympics.
I have received the letter for TOPS assistance but where is the time for foreign training now?
Too late?
“Had I received this earlier, I could have perhaps qualified long ago.
Now I would rather continue training at Hyderabad,” she said, adding that making up the numbers was not on her mind.
“I am training with a target of 10.99 seconds.
Qualifying may be 11.32, but I do not want to simply run at Rio.
I don't want to go to Rio as a tourist,” she insisted.
Despite all the hurdles she has faced in the last two years, Dutee continues to hope for a medal for the country.
“Individual races are for yourself; relays are for the country,” she signed off.