New Delhi: Some situations make you more determined, and 21-year-old Olympic-bound wrestler Vinesh Phogat is no exception, as she went through exactly that.
When Vinesh entered the final Olympic qualifying tournament in Istanbul early this month, she felt hard-pressed to make the cut for the Rio Games after letting it slip on two occasions - first at the World Championships in the US last year and then at the Asian Olympic qualifying in Mongolia, where she went through the embarrassment of being overweight by 400 g.
Had the 48-kg wrestler returned empty-handed from Istanbul as well, it would have meant a wait for at least another four years and that too at the prime of her career.
That looked quite a possibility when the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) was unwilling to send her to Turkey after her successive failures, especially the disqualification for being overweight.
But Vinesh promised WFI that she would win the quota in her last attempt.
Keeping her words, Vinesh wrestled with all her might in Istanbul and not only lived up to her promise of making the cut but also surpassed expectations of her coaches by becoming the first woman wrestler from the country to win gold at any Olympic qualifying event.
On her return home to Delhi, she felt relieved, not because she has won the quota place with flying colours but she believes she can win the Olympic medal three months from now.
I was tense after missing out on Olympic qualification two times and feeling a lot of pressure going to Istanbul.
But I am happy that not only I achieved it but did it with a gold medal, said Vinesh.
"Coaches, team staff and friends were extremely encouraging and always made me believe that I could do it," Vinesh told News18 Sports .
Vinesh, the 2014 Commonwealth Games champion, and Sakshi Malik (58 kg), were the only Indian wrestlers who won Olympic quota places in Turkey.
This is also the first time when two female wrestlers from India are set to take part in the Olympics.
That feat also means the country will send its largest-ever wrestling contingent to the Games with Narsingh Pancham Yadav, Yogeshwar Dutt and Hardeep Singh having already made the cut among the men.
Vinesh defeated Turkey's Evin Demirhan in the semi-final to secure the Olympic quota and upset Poland's Iowna Nina Matkowska in the title clash for a gold.
She lived up to her promise by never letting her focus drift from the target she had under her sight.
"It was a sort of risk in the beginning, but it also spurred me on to go an extra mile.
Every moment I made myself recall about my aim.
I didn't take it lightly at all," said the reigning Asian Championship bronze medallist.
When Vinesh was grappling in Turkey, the atmosphere was tense at her home in Balali, Bhiwani, not because she was the lone hope of the family but because two of her cousin sisters - Geeta and Babita - had missed out on the Rio ticket in the Mongolia event.
The family, thus, pinned hopes on the last wrestler from Phogat clan to get onto the Olympics bus.
"They were disappointed when neither of us qualified in Mongolia, but my family is into sports for a long time and understands that you can't win all the time.
However, they had high hopes of me when I was going to Istanbul.
I am happy that I didn't disappoint them," said the JSW Sports Excellence Progamme-sponsored athlete.
In wrestling, a wrestler wins the Olympic quota for the country, but it's up to the national federation who it decides tosend for the Games.
However, in India's history, only those who won the quota places went on to represent the country.
Vinesh's case is expected to be no exception.
However, if she is green-flagged for the mega event, the pressure will be to deliver results.
A medal in Rio by a female wrestler will be as influential for the sport as the medal by Sushil at the 2008 Olympics, which inspired a generation of male wrestlers.
Does she think she can achieve that first for India?
"In the 48- kg category, you get good wrestlers from all over the world.
But the qualifiers' success has given me the confidence that I can win a medal at Rio also.
My coaches speak highly of me and they too say that I can be at the podium," Vinesh answered
Photo Credit: Twitter (@phogat_vinesh)
The Bhiwani girl believes that her and Sakshi's success will also inspire their colleagues to step up and more girls to take up the sport.
"I hope that both of us win medals in Brazil, but I think our Olympic qualification will also inspire the current generation of female wrestlers.
Just five years ago nobody thought that Indian women wrestlers could make it to the Olympics and now they are there.
Parents of young girls will not hesitate in sending their girls to the akhara (training ground) since they realise that there will be rich dividends for success," said Vinesh.
Wrestler Vinesh Phogat with her gold medal that she won at the Istanbul qualifying event.
(Twitter Photo: @phogat_vinesh)
Vinesh bagged the Rio Olympic ticket on her third attempt.
She did it in style by winning gold at the qualifying event in Istanbul - first ever by an Indian woman.
She let it slip in her first two attempts at the World Championship and Asian Olympics qualifying.
It will be the first time that two woman wrestlers from India - Vinesh and Sakshi - will compete at the Olympics.