Ayush Gupta on May 10, 2016 at 5:08 pm
MS Dhoni is indeed one of the best finishers in the world © AFP
David Warner vs Ravichandran Ashwin: The SRH skipper David Warner has been in terrific form of late as he has been scoring runs in a flurry almost every match he has been playing so far, as he aims to continue his run spree in this tie against RPS.
However, he is set to face tough competition from RPS’s star spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, and being able to hit him for runs would be a grave and uphill task for him.
The battle between the two seems to be intense and would be interesting to see how things unfold.
MS Dhoni vs Bhuvneshwar Kumar: When it comes down MS Dhoni , he is indeed one of the best finishers in the world, and also one of the best batsmen the world has ever seen.
He can come down at any position, and steady the innings as well as steer the team towards a win from any difficult situation.
However, his chances would be tested against SRH’s one of the best fast-bowlers Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who can indeed trouble the batsman with his sheer pace and swing.
Rising Pune Supergiants vs Sunrisers Hyderabad, IPL 2016 Match 40 at Visakhapatnam, Preview
Shikhar Dhawan vs Ashok Dinda: The SRH opener in the form of Shikhar Dhawan, who was initially shaky in the tournament, has made a good comeback in the past few games, and also has been consistently on the scorers list, as he would be one of the men to be watched out for again.
However, he is set to be facing a good competition from Ashok Dinda, the fast-bowler, who too has been in a decent form of late, along with some good bowling and also being on the wicket-takers list, as this battle too would be an interesting one to watch.
Kane Williamson vs Rajat Bhatia: The New Zealand skipper and opener Kane Williamson is always a force to reckon with, and be whatever the situation is, he can never be written off.
His sheer talent to play good and steady innings makes him a real threat for the opponent team, and a real treat for the fans.
However, speaking about their opponent, SRH have Rajat Bhatia, whose sheer all-round ability, especially with the ball can be a matter of concern for the batsman, as he could trouble him with his pace variation, and could be deadly in the slog overs.
( Ayush Gupta is a reporter at CricketCountry.
A passionate supporter of Manchester United, he idolises Roger Federer and is also a World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) maniac.
He can be followed on Twitter @Ayush24x7)
First Published on May 10, 2016, 5:08 pmLast updated on May 10, 2016, 5:09 pm
Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) vs Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), IPL 2016, Match 39 at Mohali
Chris Gayle shares photo of daughter Blush
Kolkata Knight Riders vs Gujarat Lions, Match 38, IPL 2016 at Eden Gardens
MI vs SRH, Match 37, IPL 2016 at Visakhapatnam
KXIP vs DD, Match 36, IPL 2016 at Mohali
RCB vs RPS, IPL 2016, Match 35 at Bangalore
PHOTOS: Sunrisers Hyderabad vs Gujarat Lions, IPL 2016, Match 34 at Hyderabad
DD vs RPS , IPL 2016, Match 33 at Delhi
KKR vs KXIP, IPL 2016, Match 32 at Kolkata
GL vs DD, IPL 2016, Match 31 at Rajkot
RCB vs KKR, IPL 2016, Match 30 at Bangalore
RPS vs MI, IPL 2016, Match 29 at Pune