Christian Wade's try against London Irish was his 12th of the season, but it was not enough to see him finish the season as the Premiership's top try scorerPremiership Wasps (21) 38Tries: Young, Piutau, Wade, Robson, Bassett, Johnson Cons: Gopperth Pens: Jackson 2 London Irish (7) 12Tries: Williams, Lewington Cons: Pens: Brophy-Clews Relive the final day of the Premiership season
Wasps ran in six tries to thrash relegated London Irish, but victory was not enough to earn them a home semi-final in the Premiership play-offs.
Irish, condemned to life in the second tier before kick-off, momentarily led through Johnny Williams' try after Ruaridh Jackson landed two Wasps kicks.
Wasps led 21-7 at the break, with Christian Wade among the try scorers.
The Chiefs' resounding 62-24 triumph at The Twickenham Stoop means Dai Youngs' Wasps travel to Sandy Park on Saturday, 21 May.
For Wasps to finish above Exeter, they were relying on Quins beating the Chiefs.
Premiership play-off semi-final line-upSaracens v Leicester (Saturday, 21 May - 12:30 BST)Exeter v Wasps (Saturday, 21 May - 15:15 BST)
Early on the hosts played it safe with two penalties from Jackson, but Williams' try for Irish added a sense of urgency to the occasion.
Thomas Young then went over to restore Wasps' lead and Charles Piutau added a second try before the visitors had Ofisa Treviranus sin-binned.
Wasps made the one-man advantage count, with Wade crossing for his 12th league try of the season.
Alex Lewington pulled a try back for Irish after the interval, only for Dan Robson and Josh Bassett to put Wasps back in command, and Ashley Johnson sealed victory with the sixth try after Luke Narraway was yellow carded for Irish.
Wasps: C Piutau; Wade, Daly, S Piutau, Bassett; Jackson, Simpson; Mullan, Johnson, Cittadini, Launchbury, Davies, Haskell (capt), Young, Hughes.
Replacements: Shervington, Bristow, Swainston, Rowlands, Jones, Robson, Gopperth, Miller.
London Irish: Tonks; Lewington, Mulchrone, Williams, Tikoirotuma; Brophy Clews, McKibbin; Harris, Paice, Franks, Stooke, Symons, Narraway (capt), Trayfoot, Treviranus.
Replacements: Cruse, Halavatau, Palframan, Sinclair, McCusker, Allinson, Noakes, Hearn.