Last updated on Tuesday, 10 May, 2016, 11:07 AM
Shane Watson (right) acknowledged AB de Villiers's contribution to his bowling success.
© BCCI
Shane Watson has turned into an unlikely hero with the ball for Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) and he's relishing being assigned the task of closing out matches.
Twice in two days, against Rising Supergiants Pune (RPS) and Kings XI Punjab (KXIP), the burly former Australian all-rounder has saved Bangalore's blushes with impact spells, leading to a turnaround in the team's fortunes after they had had lost five of their first seven games.
In a chat with IPLT20.com , Watson spoke about his bowling spell which played a key role in the Royal Challengers usurping Punjab by a slender one-run margin, a result which kept them alive in the race for the playoffs.
"It is a gift to be able to win a game by one run.
In these tournaments, in the IPL, you have to fall on the right side of those really close ones to be able to give yourself a chance to make it to the playoffs.
So it's a good starting point we were able to fall on the right side of the game tonight to continue on the momentum that we started in the last game in Bangalore," Watson said.
Watson was recalled into the attack in the 17th over, with KXIP needing 40 runs and a well settled Murali Vijay in the middle.
He went on to concede just 3 runs from the over and snaffled the vital wicket of Vijay.
He then bowled the crucial 19th over - allowing just 7 runs off it, including a boundary.
Chris Jordan then held his nerve to help Bangalore close out the match.
"Knowing how the wicket was tonight, it was quite slow, so I changed pace because it was gripping a little bit.
So I bowled a lot more of those cutters than the normal sort of speed balls," Watson said, when asked about his bowling plans.
"I knew the cutters were going to be very effective tonight and it's fortunate that most of the time it did," he added.
Watson is also extremely pleased over the manner in which his bowling has been utilized by captain Virat Kohli.
"Virat has been using me in one over spells early on in the innings and then more towards the back end depending on where it suits the team the most.
I am happy to bowl anywhere Virat (needs me).
He instills lot of confidence in me, he lets me sort of choose the balls and allows me to set my fields accordingly as well - with his input a lot of the time as well.
It's been great to work under him and he's using me very nicely.
So I'm having a lot of fun doing it," he said.
The 34-year-old also acknowledged the contributions of AB de Villiers while bowling at South African batsman Farhaan Behardien in the penultimate over.
"It is just great to have AB (de Villiers) in our team anyway, but someone with his experience (and) he knows Behardien well.
So (the chat was) just to try to set up the right field as much as we could to give me a number a ball options that I could bowl to that field," he detailed.
A stalwart himself, Watson has shared the dressing room with several superstars of his time and he reckoned it was a privilege to be in the same team that consists of stars such as Kohli, AB de Villiers and Chris Gayle.
"Virat is extremely open to our thoughts and opinions on certain things.
He has always got some thoughts and tactically he is very good as well.
So to have AB de Villiers and Chris Gayle as starting point as well, with all their experience and knowledge on the game of cricket (is helpful).
Virat gets the best out of everything that we have got.
So I think we are very privileged here at RCB to have so much of quality experience and knowledge on the game of cricket," Watson concluded.
LATEST NEWS