Updated: May 6, 2016 00:16 IST
Photo: Warren Little/Getty Images
Soumyajit Ghosh.
For more than a decade, Sharath Kamal has been the flag-bearer of the Indian table tennis team with his exploits in the International arena.
A huge gulf separated Sharath and the others in terms of world rankings.
Not any longer.
With a string of fine performances in the Olympic qualification tournament in Hong Kong, and a stunning upset of World No.14 Jung Youngsik of Korea in the last sixteen of the Asian Cup in April, Soumyajit Ghosh has jumped to 65 in the world (he was ranked 85 last month) to become the No.1 Indian paddler.
Speaking to The Hindu , Ghosh, on Thursday, said: “It feels good.
Now there is a huge responsibility on my shoulders.
It was easy to reach the rankings but difficult to maintain.
My target is to improve further.”
On overtaking Sharath, who has slipped to 73 from 61 last month, Ghosh was all humility.
“I would like to learn from him.
This is the just the beginning.
Sharath can anytime come back to the top of the world rankings.
No can achieve what he has done,” he said.
Ghosh sounded optimistic about the Indian men’s team future after a breakthrough performance at the World championships in Kuala Lumpur, where the team qualified for the first division.
“We have a mixed team with an experienced duo of Sharath and Amalraj and youngsters including myself, Harmeet Desai and G. Sathiyan.
We have good team spirit and competition.
We are pushing each other.
We are now 16 in the world, which is great.”
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.
close Recent Article in Other Sports