A landmark review into the death of Australia's Phillip Hughes said that helmets should be compulsory for batsmen and fielders near the wicket, and substitutes considered for concussed players.
Hughes, who played 26 Tests, died in November 2014 after being hit on the base of the skull by a rising ball while batting in a domestic match in Sydney.
His death — a freak accident — stunned Australia and the world cricket community, sparking an outpouring of grief.
Cricket Australia had ordered an independent review, which said the medical treatment the 25-year-old received was appropriate and timely.
At the time, Hughes was wearing a helmet which was not compliant with the more recent, and stringent, British Standard, which extends the grille protecting the face further to the rear of the helmet.
‘Even the new helmets would’ve not saved him’
Barrister David Curtain, who conducted the review, said even if Hughes had been wearing the newer model, it would not have saved him.
"I do not believe that the new helmet would have afforded additional protection against the blow given the location of where Phillip was struck, as the protection to the neck, at the rear, is no different," he said.
The 62-page report also found limited scientific evidence that current clip-on neck guards would prevent a similar tragedy, and needed further evaluation before being mandated.
But, to minimise any similar incident, it recommended all first-class cricketers in Australia wear helmets made to British safety standards while batting against medium or fast bowling, in nets and games.
Helmets should also be worn by wicketkeepers standing up to the stumps and fielders within seven metres of the batsman, apart from those in the slips, and protective headwear for umpires should also be considered.
There must also be defibrillator available at all first-class matches in case the medical staffers need to deal with trauma-related cardiac incidents or coronary conditions.
Mr. Curtain added that concussion substitutes may be a good idea as they would encourage players who have been hit to leave the field, with Cricket Australia requesting that the International Cricket Council look at the issue at a meeting this month.