Last updated on Monday, 09 May, 2016, 07:20 PM
Kings XI Punjab 174/4 (20.0 Ovs)
Royal Challengers Bangalore 175/6
Royal Challengers Bangalore won by 1 run
Vijay's efforts were in vain.
What a win this is for the Royal Challengers!
This should pump them up in their tough quest to make it to the playoffs.
Kings XI had their chances.
They needed 17 from the final over but failed to connect a few full tosses.
In the end, they could get only a couple when they needed two off the final ball.
Vijay will be gutted after that heroic knock.
Terrific spell under pressure and that penultimate over was top class.
No wonder he was named the player of the match despite AB's efforts with the bat.
This is the wicket RCB needed!
And it is that man Shane Watson again to their rescue!
Bangs in short and Vijay mistimes a heave.
Chahal makes no mistake and the skipper has to leave.
His side now need 37 from 18 deliveries.
Behardien joins Stoinis.
Murali Vijay is finding the boundary off every over and the Kings XI now need 53 from the final five which is achievable with wickets in hand.
RCB need to strike big and strike soon!
What a superb innings this has been from Murali Vijay!
He gets to his half-century off just 36 balls and his team badly needs him now more than ever after that double strike from Chahal.
The third umpire took his time to make a decision!
Saha comes down the track and misses the ball which bounces off Rahul's gloves onto his helmet but he collects it again and stumps in time to dismiss him.
And then off the next ball, the out of form Miller is stumped off a googly!
That was beautifully bowled by the leg-spinner.
It has turned the tide here.
The home side are in a strong position here thanks to Murali Vijay who is approaching a half-century.
They now need 93 more runs in the final ten which is definitely on with some firepower left to come.
RCB need wickets.
Amla is dismissed!
And RCB needed that wicket badly!
Watson bowls a bouncer and the South African pulls it straight to Binny who takes a neat catch.
Kings XI would be happy with the powerplay though as they score 50 off it.
Saha is the new man.
At one stage, it looked as if RCB would struggle to get to 150 after Cariappa's double strike!
But AB stepped up big time with Sachin Baby who made 33.
The visitors have posted a good total on the board but will it be enough?
Remember, Punjab don't have Maxwell.
But they still have enough firepower to trouble this bowling lineup.
It should be an interesting chase!
This could be a game changer!
Sandeep manages to get rid of AB for 64 at a time when he was looking to smash every ball out of the park.
They can probably now look to save 10-15 runs in the final two overs with this wicket.
He has been under Kohli's radar in the last few games but tonight he has stepped up when his team needed him the most!
AB de Villiers gets to his half-century and he pumps his chest!
Watch out Mohali!
Ominous signs for the Kings XI bowlers as he goes down on one knee and 'sweeps' a full toss off Sandeep Sharma for a six and then hits another boundary to take RCB to 129 for three.
They will certainly eye 180 with wickets in hand.
Rahul once again delivered at the top of the order.
Sachin Baby and AB have looked to steady the ship and RCB move to 85 for 3 in 12 overs.
The South African superstar is the key as he needs to bat through the innings.
They have Head and Binny to accelerate at the death!
Watson is now dismissed trying to pull Axar!
To his defence, the ball did keep a tad low but he should have taken his time to see the wicket's behaviour considering his side lost two quick wickets.
Kings XI are truly on top now.
Sachin Baby comes ahead of Travis Head.
Wow this game has turned on its head in the space of three deliveries!
The home side were under the pump after Rahul's onslaught but Cariappa has dragged them back into the contest.
Kohli tries to hit one through the covers but is caught instead by Vijay.
He had an ordinary outing tonight and departs for 20 from 21.
Watson joins AB in the middle!
It was a mini-battle between the two state mates and it is the bowler who comes out on top.
Cariappa bowls a quicker one on leg stump which Rahul tries to sweep and misses.
The ball hits the stumps and he is pumped up!
Kings XI needed it!
Kings XI also need the new man AB de Villiers soon.
Kohli has been quiet so far but RCB still race to 56 in the powerplay thanks to KL Rahul's belligerence.
He has been so severe especially against Stoinis and is batting on 39 already.
Why would RCB miss Chris Gayle at this rate?
What has Marcus Stoinis done?
He has just dropped the man who is in the form of his life!
Virat Kohli cuts Mohit Sharma past point where Stoinis dives, gets his hands to it but manages to spill it.
Toss: Kings XI opt to bowl
Murali Vijay wants to chase tonight!
The big news from the middle is that they have dropped Glenn Maxwell.
That is quite surprising considering Miller has retained his spot.
Farhan Behardien takes his spot.
Anureet Singh gets a game as well.
RCB bring back Iqbal Abdullah in place of Pervez Rasool.
Kings XI Punjab (Playing XI): Murali Vijay(c), Marcus Stoinis, Hashim Amla, Wriddhiman Saha(w), David Miller, Farhaan Behardien, Axar Patel, Anureet Singh, Mohit Sharma, Sandeep Sharma, KC Cariappa
Royal Challengers Bangalore (Playing XI): Virat Kohli(c), Lokesh Rahul(w), AB de Villiers, Shane Watson, Travis Head, Sachin Baby, Stuart Binny, Chris Jordan, Iqbal Abdulla, Varun Aaron, Yuzvendra Chahal
Two bottom-placed sides face off in what promises to be an intriguing clash tonight in Mohali.
Kings XI know they will be out of contention if they lose tonight and the Royal Challengers know they will move a step closer to suffer a similar fate.
The Kings XI bowlers will be having a single point agenda tonight.
Get rid of Virat Kohli as early as possible!
In the kind of form he has been in, it will certainly be a herculean task!
Sandeep Sharma and Mohit Sharma have a huge task in their hands.
Chris Gayle is expected to be left out tonight as well.
Will Travis Head prove his worth on a surface which could possibly suit his style of batting?
And how about the explosive batsmen in the home side's ranks?
Can Miller finally fire tonight against a bowling attack which has been touted as the weakest in this tournament?
Welcome to our live blog of match number 39 of IPL 2016.
Stoinis relishing IPL opportunity
So close yet so far for Stoinis and Co.
RCB overcome Vijay brilliance to clinch humdinger
'Frustrating journey, but Supergiants still have a chance'
Ricky Ponting - I don't believe in coaching manuals
The redemption of Praveen Kumar - A return from the badlands