It was a familiar sight.
Yuvraj Singh falling on Sachin Tendulkar’s feet to seek his blessings.
He has done it twice on a cricket ground now.
Maybe more.
But these were the two times photographers captured it.
Last time, it was during the MCC Bicentenary Celebration Match in which Yuvraj scored a scintillating century to guide his team - Rest of the World XI - towards a safe total.
He stole the show by touching the feet of Sachin, who was bowling for Marylebone Cricket Club.
This time Yuvraj had just completed his hundredth IPL innings and he again fell on the legend’s feet.
The two players share a long history, both backing each other up during tough times and constantly encouraging one another to rise from defeats both in cricket and personal life.
After winning the World Cup in 2011, Yuvraj had dedicated the success to Tendulkar by saying the legend was his ‘inspiration’.
“In my tough times, I just spoke to Sachin about my issues with batting and form and fitness and he told me that you will matter when it matters the most.
That is a very special thought, it remains with me.
“I remember I have a picture of me and Tendulkar together which I have put in my locker.
I used to have a look at that picture and go into bat.
He is my inspiration,” Yuvraj said on the first anniversary of the World Cup win.
Singh was diagnosed with cancer in 2012 and underwent chemotherapy in the US.
Since his comeback he has struggled to find form but has managed to stick around till now due to some match winning performances with the international side.
“When I went to meet him in London, I was telling my wife that I don’t want to break down when I see him,” Tendulkar had said three years back at the release of Yuvraj’s book The Test of My Life: From Cricket to Cancer and Back.
Yuvraj was heart-broken after hearing about Sachin’s retirement in 2013.
He had just scored a match-winning 77 against Australia in a one-off T20 at Rajkot and was confused whether to celebrate his success or feel sad as Sachin will not be a part of the dressing room anymore.
“I don’t think I am going to let him go away.
I am going to catch hold of his feet and not (let him) leave the dressing room.
It has been amazing to play with him for so many years -- one of the greatest players to have played the game.
I don’t know what to say,” Yuvraj had said after learning about Sachin’s retirement decision.
The left-arm all-rounder has scored 2,143 runs at an average of 25.21 in the 100 IPL matches.
He has also taken 35 wickets at an economy of 7.26.