HealthDay Reporter
TUESDAY, May 10, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Obesity may not cut your life short after all, a new study suggests.
Danish researchers report that the risk that an obese man or woman will die prematurely has dropped dramatically over the last 40 years.
How dramatically?
According to their analysis, the 30 percent greater risk of dying early from any cause found back in the 1970s has virtually disappeared.
Translation: The researchers said that the risk of dying early for any reason is now the same among obese individuals as it is among normal-weight individuals.
Not only that, but having a body mass index (BMI) of 27, which is considered overweight, was linked to having the lowest risk of death from all causes, the study authors said.
But both the Danish researchers and U.S. experts noted that longer life might not be better life, particularly if an obese or overweight person is struggling with chronic disease.
The startling finding stems from work led by Dr. Borge Nordestgaard, a clinical professor with the Institute of Clinical Medicine at the University of Copenhagen.
The analysis stacked BMI data against all-cause death statistics among three groups of Danes: 14,000 enrolled in a heart study during the mid-1970s; 9,500 enrolled in the same study in the early 1990s; and more than 97,000 who were enrolled in a lifestyle study between 2003 and 2013.
Today's weight classifications peg normal weight as having a BMI of between 18.5 and 24.9.
Those with a BMI of between 25 and 29.9 are considered overweight, while anyone with a BMI of 30 or more is considered obese.
BMI is a measurement based on height and weight.
The result in the Danish analysis: In addition to obesity-related early death risk dropping to normal-weight levels, the team found that the BMI level linked to the lowest rate of all-cause early death had gone up by more than three units, rising from 23.7 in the 1970s to 27 in 2013.
"On the BMI scale, a rise of 3.3 units is quite a lot," said Nordestgaard.
"And a BMI of 27 is actually right in the middle of what we today call being 'overweight,'" he explained.
Good to Know is a new feature that allows members of the community to answer questions from WebMD experts, doctors, staff, and other community members.
We're testing this new feature and we'd like your feedback.