(*this news item will not be available after 07/24/2016)
By Robert Preidt
Monday, April 25, 2016
MONDAY, April 25, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Children of Hispanic mothers who weren't born in the United States may be at lower risk for some types of childhood cancers, a new study suggests.
"Incorporating the immigrant experience into studies of childhood cancer may help to inform research on disease [causes], identify vulnerable populations and highlight opportunities for cancer prevention," said Julia Heck, of the University of California, Los Angeles, and her study co-authors.
It is important to evaluate childhood cancer risk in the large and growing Hispanic population, the research team said.
For the study, the investigators analyzed data from children born in California between 1983 and 2012.
The analysis was limited to children of U.S.-born white, U.S.-born Hispanic, or non-U.S.-born Hispanic mothers.
Among the children, there were about 13,600 cancer diagnoses before age 6, and more than 15.5 million kids who were not diagnosed with cancer before that age, the findings showed.
Children of Hispanic mothers who were born outside the United States were less likely than those of U.S.-born Hispanic mothers and U.S.-born white mothers to have cancers such as glioma (brain), astrocytoma (brain), neuroblastoma (a type of solid tumor) and Wilms tumor (kidney), the researchers found.
However, Hispanic children -- regardless of where their mother was born -- were more likely than white children to have acute lymphoblastic leukemia and Hodgkin lymphoma, according to the study.
The report was published online April 25 in the journal JAMA Pediatrics .
Reasons for different rates of certain cancers among Hispanic and white children may include genetics, infections early in life, lifestyle factors and environmental exposures, Heck's team suggested.
"Further studies should explore the differences in risk incurred by variation in environmental, behavioral and infectious exposures between non-U.S.- and U.S.-born Hispanic mothers," the study authors concluded.
SOURCE: JAMA Pediatrics , news release, April 25, 2016
Copyright (c) 2016 HealthDay .
All rights reserved.
News stories are provided by HealthDay and do not reflect the views of MedlinePlus, the National Library of Medicine, the National Institutes of Health, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or federal policy.
More Health News on: Cancer in ChildrenHispanic American Health Recent Health News