By Chad TerhuneCalifornia’s health insurance exchange estimates that its Obamacare premiums may rise 8 percent on average next year, which would end two consecutive years of more modest 4 percent increases.
The projected rate increase in California, included in the exchange’s proposed annual budget, comes amid growing nationwide concern about insurers seeking double-digit premium hikes in the health law’s insurance marketplaces.
Any increases in California, a closely watched state in the health law rollout, are sure to draw intense scrutiny during a presidential election.
Republicans are quick to seize on rate hikes as further proof that President Barack Obama’s signature law isn’t doing enough to hold down health care costs for the average consumer.
Insurers in California have submitted initial rates for 2017, but the final figures won’t be known until July after state officials conduct private negotiations.
Peter Lee, executive director of Covered California, underscored that the estimate was preliminary but said some one-time factors under the Affordable Care Act mean “2017 will be an adjustment year” for rates.
“We shouldn’t put too much focus on this 8 percent number when we will know the reality in two months,” Lee told California Healthline on Tuesday.
“There are a number of reasons 2017 will have higher rate increases than the last few years.
But we believe in California we won’t see the significant headwinds many other states are experiencing.”
Lee said the expiration this year of two federal programs that have helped health insurers offset expensive medical claims and cover sick patients in general will affect premium rates across the country.
In addition, he cited ever-increasing medical costs, particularly for expensive specialty drugs.
The nation’s largest health insurer, UnitedHealth Group, already has said it will exit all but a handful of state exchanges after suffering substantial losses on individual policies.
Lee declined to comment on whether UnitedHealth has submitted a bid to continue selling in Covered California next year.
Health-policy experts said the California rate projection mirrors an upward trend around the country as health insurers reassess their pricing and strategy under Obamacare.
CA Obamacare Premiums May Rise 8% Next Year
The projected increase in premiums is expected to draw national attention in an election year -- especially from foes of the Affordable Care Act.