Testosterone therapy does not raise prostate cancer risk: Study
New steroid treatment for kids with lung condition
Death of 23k chickens in Karnataka may trigger culling of 1.5 lakh birds
World Thalassemia Day: All you need to know
AIIMS among 200 to get dengue notice
Polio vaccine: Parents need to overcome fear and take infants to government hospitals
Brain ultrasound can assess stroke risk
Childhood obesity is a scary reality
Lung diseases rise on toxic air
More Home Home Life & Style Relationships
Man-Woman
Parenting
Work
Pets
Soul Curry
Ask the expert
Specials
Health & Fitness Health News
Fitness
Diet
Weight Loss
Home Remedies
De-stress
Specials Every Heart Counts
Listen To Your Sugar
Beauty
Photo Stories Relationships
Health & Fitness
Beauty
People
Food
Home & Garden
Fashion
Books
People
Food Food Features
Food Reviews
Bar Reviews
Recipes
Quick Food
Drinks Corner
Specials
Books
Features
Interviews
Book Launches
Write India
Home & Garden
Fashion
Shows
Designers
Trends
Style Guide
Model of the day
Specials
Specials Debate Photos
Videos
ALL
Write India authors on Literary Fiction Lakme Fashion Week Summer 2016: Manish Malhotra Paris Fashion Week: Christian Dior RTW Fall 2016 collection 8 popular Indian food myths busted Herbs every woman must know and start using!
10 flowers that are edible just like any food
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party
Claudia Ciesla speaks on fitness and her book Anushka Sharma’s hot sizzling photoshoot Ayushmann Khurrana shares his style mantra Met Gala 2016: Worst dressed celebs Hottest couples at Met Gala 2016 Met Gala 2016: Best dressed celebs
Cocaine addicts may soon have a "cure" for their unhealthy dependence
ANI | May 9, 2016, 03.38 PM ISTSoon, an anti-cocaine vaccine (Getty Images) Cocaine addicts may soon have a "cure" for their unhealthy dependence as a team of Indian-American scientists has developed a vaccine to treat this addiction for the first time.
The vaccine cures brain's hyperactivity of drug addicted, especially cocaine addicted.
So far, no vaccine or drug approved by the US Federal Drug Authority (FDA) is available to treat cocaine addiction.
"Researchers failed to tune the sensitivity of the antibodies production in our immune system to stop the brain hyperactivity due to lack of vaccine biomolecule design," said team leader Dr. Rajagopal Appavu of the Texas University.
He added, "We are the first team to develop an antibody in the blood stream that effectively stop cocaine molecule from reaching the brain."
Dr. Rajagopal told the Indian Science Journal, the vaccine developed by them is 100 percent safe and effective.
The key elements of the vaccine are self-assembling proteins/peptides and modified cocaine molecule (not original cocaine molecule).
It was tested effectively on mice.
"After the ELISA analysis, we got significantly powerful antibody response against cocaine," Dr. Rajagopal said.
"This is the first such method for vaccine development and experiments in mice showed 100 per cent result.
We are now moving towards clinical trials," he added.
Cocaine is a powerfully addictive stimulant that can cause significant health problems, including overdose and death.
Since signs of cocaine abuse are similar to the symptoms of other health issues, it can be difficult to find whether someone is using cocaine.
Short-term effects of cocaine abuse include violent behaviour, increased heart beat, increased rate of breathing, disturbed sleep, hyperstimulation, depression, high blood pressure leading to heart attacks, stroke and death.
Though cocaine is not popular amongst drug addicts, the enforcement agencies have seized 14.68 kgs of the substance in 2014 (no later data is available), which incidentally is far less than the seizure of 47 kgs a year earlier.
Cocaine abuse in India is more prevalent among the rich and the influential.
It primarily grows and is cultivated in the South American countries like Brazil, Colombia, Bolivia and Peru, from where it is trafficked throughout the world.
Although the drug is finding its markets in the developing countries, the primary markets still are North America and Europe.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia