Image copyrightCorsodyl advert/YouTubA marketing campaign for Corsodyl mouthwash features a woman losing her teeth.
It's the latest part of an advertising campaign that has successfully used shock tactics.
A woman sitting in bed is horrified when her teeth fall out into her hand.
She wakes and is relieved to find it was a nightmare, but then spits out blood when brushing her teeth.
Looking in the bathroom mirror she reveals a gap where her front tooth should be.
This is the latest advert for Corsodyl and it has been on television, in cinemas and on transport posters.
The tagline says: "Because losing a tooth in real-life is worse than a bad dream."
Pharmaceuticals giant GlaxoSmith Kline has spent millions on recent campaigns for Corsodyl.
The adverts have mostly featured women - of the four latest TV adverts, only one centres on a man.
Many viewers have complained on social media that they have found the latest advert unpleasant to watch.
"I have a huge phobia of losing my teeth and the #Corsodyl advert makes me cry and have nightmares about losing my teeth.
Thanks," Lishaa wrote on Twitter, finishing with a sad face emoticon.
Laura L said "ARGH every time I see the Corsodyl advert where her teeth fall out I feel sick for ages."
Meanwhile Mark Hawkins said it was a case of "blatant scaremongering."
Corsodyl contains chlorhexidine digluconate, an antibacterial agent also used in other generic mouthwashes, and is used to manage mouth ulcers and also to prevent new bacterial growth in someone with mild gum disease, known as gingivitis.
It is available without prescription.
Previous Corsodyl campaigns have also used shock tactics.
An advert from 2013 showed a woman using mascara and ignoring blood running from her eye.
The message was supposed to draw attention to the idea that people would not ignore blood from any other part of the body, so they shouldn't ignore spitting blood after brushing their teeth.
The shock campaign boosted sales .
But it also prompted five complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority .
That's a small number but the complainants included a dental nurse and a dental hygienist, who challenged whether the ad misleadingly implied Corsodyl could treat all types of gum disease and whether the ads were irresponsible by encouraging self-diagnosis and self-medication.
None of the complaints were upheld by the ASA.
The current campaign has already prompted 20 complaints to the ASA, which are currently being reviewed.
GSK vigorously defends its campaigns.
The firm says a frank approach is needed to raise awareness of gum disease, which can eventually lead to tooth loss.
"A hard-hitting creative [advert] was required to highlight that ignoring bleeding gums could lead to serious consequences."
Scare ads are nothing new, according to marketing professor Isabelle Szmigin from the University of Birmingham.
TV ads from the 1960s onwards sold products like deodorants and mouthwash to young adults by pointing out the social repercussions if they didn't use them.
Later public health campaign ads increased the fear factor when addressing topics like Aids or drink driving.
Image copyrightCorsodyl advert/YouTubeHowever, Szmigin says public health campaigns arguably had a good reason for creating a strong message.
That doesn't apply to all brands.
"This is quite a radical approach from Corsodyl," she says.
"This advert is tapping in to our subconscious anxieties and sensitivity about our teeth and then linking it to their product.
They are using a fear response to get straight to changing a consumer's behaviour.
It's quite a basic, functional message saying 'use this if you don't want that.'"
This tactic has worked well for GSK in the past.
Its campaign has been created by agency Grey London and is targeting women aged 35 to 55, using "disruptive advertising".
Grey London did not wish to speak about the campaign.
According to Marketing Magazine , mimicking public service announcements helped to double Corsodyl in size from £10m to £21m from 2008-2009.
"The campaign grew the otherwise static medicated mouthwash market by 33%."
Image copyrightCorsodyl advert/YouTubeGSK has now put £7.2m into its latest multimedia push for Corsodyl.
It is the biggest marketing investment for the brand to date according to The Grocer magazine.
The ads are due to run until July this year.
The British Dental Association doesn't take a position on the Corsodyl adverts, but they do emphasise that any mouthwash isn't a miracle cure.
Damien Walmsley, the British Dental Association's scientific adviser, says: "Mouthwash by itself, won't make the problem go away.
Using one can work but in a plan worked out with the dentist.
If you find you have bleeding gums you should revisit how you brush your teeth and make sure you keep cleaning them.
If it doesn't go away or you have concerns you should go to your dentist."
But some dentists do take issue with the adverts.
Dr Nilesh Parmar, a dentist in Southend, has been concerned about Corsodyl advertising for a number of years and wrote a blog post outlining his concerns.
He says he and his colleagues are glad that the latest advert has brought greater awareness to the issue of gum disease.
However, they have found the outcome of the campaign to be more problematic.
"I've had patients start using the mouthwash instead of going to the dentist as they think Corsodyl is a cure for gum disease.
Actually it just masks the problem, as mild gum disease, known as gingivitis, is caused by poor oral hygiene.
Patients need to improve on brushing and flossing their teeth regularly."
Image copyrightSCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARYImage caption
Patient with gingivitis
Parmar adds that Corsodyl can stain your teeth brown after regular use, which might lead some people to brush harder and damage their gums.
Corsodyl does warn of a possible staining side-effect on its label and on its website .
"I don't suggest mouthwash to my patients generally as I liken it to throwing soapy water on a dirty car," Parmar says.
But a spokesperson from GSK says: "The intention of the Corsodyl TV advertisement is to highlight how important it is not to ignore the early signs of gum disease.
We aim to encourage consumers to re-appraise their oral care habits and treat their gum disease before tooth loss can become a reality."
The latest advert does not mention NHS advice that you should see your dentist if your gums bleed when you brush your teeth.
However, a page on the Corsodyl website does suggest consumers should go to their dentist if they think they are suffering from gum disease.
Szmigin says: "The advert doesn't mention that you should brush your teeth, but then that wouldn't sell the product.
"Advertisers can get away with a lot as long as they are not telling an untruth.
In this advert they aren't saying anything incorrect but at the same time they're not giving the full information.
This tactic isn't unique to this brand."