April 7 is World Health Day and this year's theme is diabetes.
But why is it pertinent to write about it on a personal finance page?
Because, with 50 million Type 2 cases, India is the global diabetes capital.
And the numbers are rising: by 2030, this figure is expected to cross the 100-million mark.Diabetes is a lifestyle disease with 28-million cases among urban affluent Indians -and the scariest part is most are in their most productive years, between 20 and 60.
This means the disease can disrupt a family's finances due to sudden loss of a source of income.
Plus, there is the high cost of treatment.
Insurers say the average claim size of a diabetic policyholder is Rs 50,000 and is rising at 18% a year.
If it becomes more serious, and affects your kidneys, there are recurring costs and the bills will be much higher.
"Amputation, diabetic foot treatment, diabetic retinopathy, coronary angiography-bypass are other costly procedures that many diabetic patients often have to go through," says Mick Miller, head, claims, SBI General Insurance.
So, preventive measures should not be limited to just awareness and healthchecks, but take into account monetary safeguards too.
After all, nothing can be worse than not being able to afford a proper treatment.
And if you don't have enough savings , insurance is your best shot at getting a proper treatment.
Who is at Threat: Before you decide on your insurer, decide how much insurance you need.
The cover size should be bigger if you are in the high-threat category , which depends on your age, gender and the city you live in.
Data shows 64%-67% of the claims made are from the Top 10 cities.
That may be because hypertension and lifestyle choices often leads to diabetes.Moreover, treatment costs in a city are often higher than in smaller towns leading to higher claim sizes.
So, a person in Mumbai will need a bigger cover than a policyholder in Madurai.
Also, men are more prone to the disease than women.
SBI General's data on claims made in last three financials says 64% of claimants were men against 34% women.
The average claim size among men is close to Rs 35,000 while for women it is Rs 25,000.
The disease seems to have a correlation with your age: most claims are made by people in the 36-60 year age bracket.
If you think you are in the high-risk category, it will be prudent to buy a cover while you still don't have the disease.
If you have a family history or suffer from hypertension and high blood pressure, make sure you buy an insurance now.
Unless detected, insurers will agree to offer a regular health indemnity plan (standard hospital cover) that covers you against the disease.
This cover will be much cheaper than a specialised diabetes health plan.
A Rs 5-lakh cover would cost a healthy person Rs 6,000 whereas a diabetic would have to shell out close to Rs 17,000.
First, you should get a regular indemnity plan if you have not been detected yet and a specialised one if you are suffering.However, don't get the full cover required under one plan.
Meaning, if you need a Rs 10 lakh cover, buy only Rs 5 lakh under the base policy.
Rest should be under a top-up plans.
Most top-up plans from standalone health insurers cover diabetes related complications and will cost you half the price of your base plan.
Some insurers like Star Health also offer floater cover.
If both husband and wife are suffering from the disease, you can share the cover and reduce the cost.
Avoiding Bitter Pill: With treatment cost rising, ET tells you all about insurance and premia.