WebMD News from HealthDay
HealthDay Reporter
FRIDAY, May 6, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Walking the dog may be a health boon for older Americans, new research suggests.
Dog walking helps cut back on excess weight and the overall need to visit a physician while raising overall moderate and vigorous exercise levels among the over-60 set, investigators found.
And the strong emotional bonds formed between owner and pet offer social benefits, encouraging increased contact with other pet owners.
"There is a wealth of evidence that walking is beneficial for people's physical health," said study lead author Angela Curl.
She is an assistant professor in the department of family studies and social work at Miami University, in Oxford, Ohio.
"[And] what makes dog walking unique is the relationship between people and their dogs, as well as the ways dogs can motivate walking behavior," she added.
"Other studies have shown dogs' needs provide a motivation to get out and walk.
Our findings illustrate that the emotional bond people have with their dogs may play an important role in getting out to walk."
Curl and her colleagues discussed their work in a recent issue of The Gerontologist .
The authors noted that in 2014, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that all adults, regardless of age, rack up a minimum of 150 minutes of moderate activity every week.
Walking happens to be the most frequent exercise activity among adults 60 and up.
To explore the impact of dog ownership on that, the investigating team analyzed data involving a nationally representative sample of 771 men and women (50 years old and up) collected in 2012 by the Health and Retirement Study.
That investigation was conducted at the University of Michigan, with funding from the U.S. National Institute on Aging.
Just over a third of the participants (271) owned at least one dog.
Pet ownership involving other types of animals was not considered.
A portion of the dog owners group was asked questions to gauge pet "bonding," including whether they considered their dog a friend, and whether they talked about their dog with others.