When this year's sweeping medical marijuana bill hit the Senate floor for a debate April 19, state Sen. Francis Thompson made it clear where he stood.
"Let me tell you what: Years ago they needed Hadacol," said Thompson, a Delhi Republican, referencing an old supplement marketed as medicine that contained a high amount of alcohol.
"I just don't believe that we should be headed in this direction with all the drug problems we have."
Meanwhile, Katie Corkern sat with her 9-year-old son, Connor, in the Capitol listening to the Senate debate.
As she did, Connor melted down into one of the thousands of seizures he has suffered as a child -- the stark reminder for Corkern about what life for her son will be like without what she believes is a life-saving drug: medical marijuana.
Corkern told House Health and Welfare Committee members of that experience during testimony Tuesday (May 3), in a moving narrative about the desperation parents of children with epilepsy in Louisiana face.
She asked them, her voice cracking, "If Connor were your child, what would you do?"
Eight of the 14 members present on Health and Welfare voted for Senate Bill 271, the most sweeping medical marijuana proposal ever to make it this far in the legislative process.
The bill expands the conditions that will qualify patients for the drug; puts an expiration date on any public university plans to grow the drug; and sets up a framework for the drug to be grown by private producers if LSU and Southern University decide not to grow the drug.
Tuesday's vote sets up a fight on the floor of the House of Representatives that advocates say is far from certain, though they're optimistic it will eventually pass.
Their optimism comes from the surprises that have emerged throughout the bill's travels in the Legislature.
It passed the Senate Health committee unanimously, won passage by a comfortable 21-16 margin on the Senate floor, and picked up an unexpected vote during Tuesday's House committee vote when Rep. Rogers Pope, a conservative Denham Springs Republican, voted yes.
"What if you had someone there?
Would you do it?"
Pope said in an interview.
"If I've tried anything and nothing worked, that gets to you."
Pope said he's not committed to voting for it on the floor of the House, however, which is where the legislation is headed next.
He said he's bothered by the fact that legislators haven't heard testimony from doctors saying it's beneficial for patients.
A key problem that the author of the legislation, state Sen. Fred Mills, has faced is convincing fellow legislators to change the word "prescription" to "recommendation."
The prescription language was in the bill that passed last year, but it makes it impossible for doctors to get medical marijuana to patients because they risk their Drug Enforcement Administration license by prescribing a Schedule I drug not recognized for medical purposes.
In both the House committee Tuesday and on the Senate floor, legislators sought to change the "recommendation" language back to "prescription" -- a change favored by the Louisiana Sheriff's Association.
Mills called those proposed changes a "poison pill."
Mike Stone, the sheriff of Lincoln Parish and the president of the Louisiana Sheriff's Association, testified against the bill Tuesday.
Although Stone acknowledged the association did not oppose last year's version of the bill, he said the removal of the recommendation language and the expansion of conditions is problematic.
"There's some grave concern with our association," Stone said.
"There is an agenda.
Pass medical marijuana to get to first base, and then they will continue."
But Mills managed to steer the legislation out of the House committee despite the Louisiana Sheriff's Association's opposition and that of the Louisiana Family Forum.
That opposition will remain when it comes to the floor of the House as early as next week.
.
.
.
.
.
.