HealthDay Reporter
TUESDAY, May 3, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Men who eat a lot of fatty foods may find themselves needing an afternoon nap, a new study suggests.
Researchers found that among almost 800 men aged 35 to 80, those with diets high in fat reported more problems with daytime sleepiness.
The connection was not explained by body weight , exercise levels or chronic health issues, such as diabetes or depression .
The study, published recently in the journal Nutrients , does not prove that dietary fat, itself, induces drowsiness.
It's unclear why a fatty diet might affect drowsiness, according to lead researcher Yingting Cao, a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Adelaide in Australia.
But, Cao said, lab studies suggest that certain "gut neuro-hormones" promote sleepiness, so it's plausible that a high-fat diet could somehow affect daytime drowsiness.
According to Cao, more research is needed to understand how fatty foods might encourage drowsiness, and whether the timing of a high-fat meal matters: Does eating fat-laden food at night, for example, interfere with sleep ?
The study findings are based on 784 Australian men who were surveyed about their diet and lifestyle.
The men also underwent an at-home study, to detect symptoms of sleep apnea -- a nighttime breathing disorder that can cause loud snoring and daytime drowsiness.
Overall, Cao's team found, the one-quarter of men with the highest daily fat intake were more likely to complain of daytime drowsiness than the one-quarter who ate the least fat.
The investigators found that 46 percent of the men in the group with the highest level of fat intake were habitually sleepy during the day, compared to 37 percent of the men in the lowest-intake group.
The researchers weighed a number of other factors -- including body weight, exercise levels, diabetes , depression , and smoking and drinking habits.
And men with the highest fat intake were still 78 percent more likely to complain of drowsiness than those with the least fat in their diets.
Men who ate the most fat also had a higher risk of sleep apnea symptoms -- though that seemed to be explained by heavier body weight, the findings suggested.
Good to Know is a new feature that allows members of the community to answer questions from WebMD experts, doctors, staff, and other community members.
We're testing this new feature and we'd like your feedback.