We can intentionally forget memories by changing the context This could help people suffering with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Scientists could track how scene images faded in and out of the mind Memory studies often focus on how we remember rather than forget
Published:
13:06 GMT, 6 May 2016
|
Updated:
18:00 GMT, 6 May 2016
For some, a certain song or smell makes them feel postively nostalgic while for someone else it reminds them of a love lost.
But a new study has shown people can intentionally forget past experiences by changing how they think about the context of those memories.
The findings could help in the development of new educational tools, or even help to diminish harmful memories, especially in people with post-traumatic stress disorder.
For some, a certain song or smell makes them feel nostalgic while for someone else it reminds them of a love lost.
But a new study has shown people can intentionally forget past experiences by changing how they think about the context of those memories
Theorists have known since the Ancient Greek era the importance of context in retrieving our memories, such as being reminded by a particular person, sight or smell.
But the team from Dartmouth and Princeton wanted to find out about whether memories could be intentionally forgotten.
To do this, they scanned the brains of participants using MRI technology to track the thoughts related to memories' contexts, while putting a new twist on the traditional psychological research technique of having subjects memorise and recall a list of unrelated words.
In the new study, researchers showed participants images of outdoor scenes, such as forests, mountains and beaches, as they studied two lists of random words.
To forget those negative thoughts coming back to haunt you, try to push out the context of the memory.
For example, if you associate a song with a break-up, listen to the song in a new environment.
Try listening to it as you exercise at the gym, or add to a playlist you listen to before a night out.
This way, your brain will associate with a positive feeling.
If a memory of a scene from a horror film haunts you, watch the same scene during the daytime.
Or watch it without sound but play a comedy clip over the top.
The volunteers deliberately manipulated whether the participants were told to forget or remember the first list prior to studying the second list.
Jeremy Manning, a psychology professor at Dartmouth who led the study, said, 'Our hope was the scene images would bias the background, or contextual, thoughts that people had as they studied the words to include scene-related thoughts.'
The brain data allowed them to track, moment-by-moment, how scene or context representations faded in and out of people's thoughts over time.
The participants were told to either forget or remember the random words presented to them interspersed between scene images.
Right after they were told to forget, the scans showed they 'flushed out' the scene-related activity from their brains.
'It's like intentionally pushing thoughts of your grandmother's cooking out of your mind if you don't want to think about your grandmother at that moment,' Manning said.
'We were able to physically measure and quantify that process using brain data.'
But when the participants were told to remember the studied list rather than forget it, this flushing out of scene-related thoughts didn't occur.
The amount people flushed out scene-related thoughts predicted how many of the studied words they would later remember, which shows the process is effective at facilitating forgetting.
The scans allowed the researchers to monitor when scenes were entering and exiting the mind in each person involved in the study as they were told to forget or remember certain words.
At the same time, the corresponding scene images were shown in random orders
A study from University College London found that people who inhaled Nitrous Dioxide after a traumatic event were less likely to be haunted by the memories during the following days.
The subjects were made to watch graphic scenes of extreme violence before a sample were given the gas right after.
Those who were not given the gas had longer lasting bad memories, or 'intrusions', of the film
If information is 'important' enough to remember, because it produces a strong emotional response, it is 'tagged' for storage.
The brain requires N-Methyl D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptors to tag information during the day, which is then filed for long-term storage while we sleep.
Nitrous oxide blocks NMDA receptors, so could interfere with tagging.
'Memory studies are often concerned with how we remember rather than how we forget, and forgetting is typically viewed as a 'failure' in some sense, but sometimes forgetting can be beneficial, too,' Manning said.
'For example, we might want to forget a traumatic event, such as soldiers with PTSD.
Or we might want to get old information 'out of our head,' so we can focus on learning new material.
'Our study identified one mechanism that supports these processes.'
Manning said it is difficult to identify the neural responses to contextual information as it refers to the 'enormously complex' and random thoughts during that experience.
'Those thoughts are presumably idiosyncratic to you as an individual, and they're also potentially unique to that specific moment.
'So, tracking the neural representations of these things is extremely challenging because we only ever have one measurement of a particular context.
'Therefore, you can't directly train a computer to recognise what context "looks like" in the brain because context is a continually moving and evolving target.'
To sidestep this they biased their subjects to incorporate specific scenes into their thoughts while they studied new words, making them common over each person.
Ouch!
Woman's hair ripped from head after corn drill...
Mysterious object on moon in newly discovered Apollo 8 photo Brianna Jungwirth looks loved up with precious baby Freddy Ranieri soaked in champagne at Leicester press conference Check out the world's first ever vertical takeoff plane!
SSE instructor encourages staff to 'exaggerate the fear' Baby faceplants in pool, rolls over, cries, learns to float Adorable moment cute baby chases dog around room London Mayor Sadiq Khan calls Tories' campaign 'nasty' Prince Harry opens the Invictus Games in Orlando, Florida Britain First candidate Paul Golding turns his back to Khan Adorable dog plays piano after trying to kiss little girl
Terrified mother saves her five-year-old daughter's life by...
Hurry to top up your tan!
Britain basks in hottest day of... Now it's REALLY serious ... Pippa Middleton has moved into... Jamie Vardy's not the only one having a party!
Leicester... 'There were three people in my marriage and one of them was...
Does this boy look fat to you?
Mother's outrage as NHS says... Princess Diana's final resting place to get multi-million... ISIS thugs hurl man to his death from tall building for... Chris Evans is accused of 'grabbing colleague's breasts and... Man, 23, arrested on suspicion of murder after soldier dies... Tom Hanks is reduced to tears on Desert Island Discs as he... UK navy officer joins ISIS: Defence experts warn of terror...