Donald Trump has discussed in recent days the possibility of selecting former House Speaker Newt Gingrich as his vice presidential running mate.
By Bloomberg | 13 May, 2016, 02.27AM IST
Donald Trump has discussed in recent days the possibility of selecting former House Speaker Newt Gingrich as his vice presidential running mate.
WASHINGTON: Donald Trump has discussed in recent days the possibility of selecting former House Speaker Newt Gingrich as his vice presidential running mate, according to multiple people familiar with the discussions.
Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has been asking confidants for input on Gingrich as a potential pick, including during conversations Wednesday at Trump Tower in New York, according to a person familiar with the discussions.
The presumptive Republican nominee told the Associated Press that he has narrowed his vice presidential list to "five or six" candidates, and has named Corey Lewandowski to head up the vetting process "with a group" of staffers.
On Fox News Tuesday night, Trump said he was also considering former Arizona Governor Jan Brewer and Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin.
Others said to be under consideration include Iowa Senator Joni Ernst, Florida Senator Marco Rubio and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, all Republicans.
Former Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson, who this week concluded his role in helping compile the list of possible running mates for Trump, also recommended Gingrich, according to a person with direct knowledge of the list.
There's a strong rationale for Gingrich, said Rick Tyler, who was an aide to the lawmaker for 12 years in Congress and during Gingrich's 2012 presidential bid.
He has substantive policy-driven views and knows the world , Tyler said.
Tyler said he's "confident" Gingrich is being considered, and could see him acting as a senior adviser in a manner similar to former Vice President Dick Cheney.
There are several approaches that can be used to selecting a vice president: pick someone who compensates for a candidate's weaknesses or echos a strength.
Gingrich might do both.
Gingrich could help activate the Republican base, but likely would do little to gain support from minorities or independent voters.
Gingrich has been a behind-thescenes cheerleader for Trump in recent weeks and has sought to serve as a liaison between Trump and Washington Republicans.
Earlier this week, he pushed back against speculation that another Republican should run as a thirdparty candidate.
Email