WebMD News from HealthDay
HealthDay Reporter
FRIDAY, May 6, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Harsh parenting may leave more than psychological scars, it might also leave lasting physical problems -- such as obesity -- even into young adulthood, new research suggests.
And having one kind, caring parent doesn't seem to counteract the effects of the harsh parent.
"Harshness, as we measured it, is always bad for kids.
But it is particularly bad if the adolescent perceives high levels of warmth and support from the other parent," said study lead author Thomas Schofield.
The researchers defined "harsh" parenting as angry, hostile and antisocial.
Until now, "we did not know if parenting that was harsh -- while not falling into the category of abuse -- could predict physical health," said Schofield, an assistant professor of human development and family studies at Iowa State University.
For the study, Schofield and his colleagues examined the results of a study of 451 children.
All were seventh-grade students in eight Iowa counties in 1989.
The researchers studied their families, even videotaping how they interacted in their homes.
Then, the investigators followed the children's health through age 20.
All of the families lived in small towns or on farms.
All were white and spoke English.
The study authors also asked kids questions about their health and whether their parents showed warmth to them by expressing caring or appreciation.
The findings showed evidence that harsh parenting appears to have a measurable impact on the health of kids.
When parents were "hostile, angry, and antisocial towards their adolescent," Schofield said, the kids were more likely to report declines in their physical health and to gain extra weight.
Meanwhile, "warmth from the second parent did not consistently buffer or protect the adolescent from the harshness from the first parent," he said.
When the researchers looked at body mass index (BMI) -- a ratio of weight to height -- they found that the harmful effects of the harsh parent on BMI increased even as the warmth of the other parent went up.
Still, "we cannot prove harsh parenting was the cause" of worse health, Schofield said.