Terming the nursing community as the "backbone" of healthcare system, Mukherjee said nurses play a vital role in all aspects of healthcare.
By PTI | 12 May, 2016, 04.11PM IST
President Pranab Mukherjee presenting the National Florence Nightingale Award for nursing to Assistant Nursing Superintendent, RML Hospital PGIMER, Sandhya Sharma at Rashtrapati Bhavan.
NEW DELHI: Amid emerging global threats such as microbial resistance, new pandemics, infections which add to the pressure on healthcare services, President Pranab Mukherjee today said capacity building in the field of nursing will require new levels of innovation and leadership.
Terming the nursing community as the "backbone" of healthcare system, Mukherjee said nurses play a vital role in all aspects of healthcare, be it national health campaigns like polio eradication or midwife services and community education .
"Their level of commitment and care are much valued in both urban and rural areas, including remote areas of the country.
Their contribution is critical in the achievement of the nation's healthcare goals.
Their inputs into health sector policies are equally important for they help in creating the necessary supportive work environment," he said.
"Emerging global threats such as microbial resistance, new pandemics, infections, and natural disasters have added to the pressure and demands on healthcare services.
The services of nurses are crucial for a response system that a government creates to meet these challenges," he added.
He also lauded the role of the Indian nurses and said they are being appreciated across the world for their sensitivity, empathy and humanity.
"Nursing personnel in our country are increasingly better educated and well-trained.
They are now more adept at communicating with patients, and connecting with citizens, communities and policy makers.
In the next 15 years or so, the nature of their services will undergo significant change.
"Training and capacity building in this field will require new levels of innovation and leadership.
Yet, one thing will endure and that is the premium all communities in the world place on the sensitivity, empathy and humanity of Indian nurses," he said.
Email