Home healthcare service providing startup – Life Circle Health has raised $150,000 in its seed funding round from European health company Groupe SOS.
The newly infused funding will be used by the company to further expand its operations.
It aims to be in 20 cities by 2020.
It will utilize funds to deepen its services in Hyderabad and expand to the National Capital Region.
Founded by Anant Kumar and Priya Anant, Life Circle Senior Services is a Hyderabad based social enterprise that provides bed side assistants, medical and nursing attendants to the chronically ill and bed ridden seniors.
The startup is currently incubated in the public private partnership incubator T-Hub.
Commenting about this, Anant Kumar, founder and CEO of the company, said,
We have provided more than 150,000 hours of professional caregiving services so far.
We differentiate our services by providing trained and verified caregivers, creating a seamless continuum of care, providing work related training and psychological counselling to caregivers.
Jean-Marc Borello, founder and president of GROUPE SOS, said,
We are excited about this participation.
Transferring both our daily experience in managing teams dedicated to home nursing and our training courses for caregivers will benefit Indian seniors and efficiently support their family.
Currently, the company is providing two types of services – Home Nursing and Professional Caregiving.
Through home nursing, the startup provides medical and nursing attendants for seniors, at home while through professional caregiving, it provides bed-side assistants that helps seniors with activities of daily living.
GROUPE SOS, which is headquartered in France, is a 30 year old company with annual turnover of USD 900 million and employs 14,000 caregivers across France and four other locations in Europe.
It will share its knowledge on managing teams dedicated to home nursing and training courses for caregivers with Life Circle.
In recent times, many startups in the space of healthcare services have raised significant amount of funding.
PramatiCare, a startup which also provides home care services had raised $200,000 in seed round in March this year.
SPONSORED CONTENT, POWERED BY GOOGLE ADVERTISEMENTS :