An Alabama attorney for two women, who won a total of $127 million in jury verdicts this year against pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson on claims that its talcum-based products caused their ovarian cancer, on Thursday called for the company to put an end to the ongoing litigation and remove its talcum powder products from store shelves, or at least warn women about the risks.
Johnson & Johnson has denied there is a link between its products and ovarian cancer and has said it will appeal the verdicts.
A jury in a City of St. Louis Circuit Court on Monday awarded $55 million to a 62-year-old South Dakota woman, Gloria Ristesund, after agreeing the company's products, such as Johnson's Baby Powder and Shower to Shower, contributed to the development of her ovarian cancer.
She was represented by attorneys including from Montgomery-based Beasley, Allen, Crow, Methvin, Portis & Miles, P.C..
Another jury in St. Louis in February had ruled that Johnson & Johnson has to pay the family of Jacqueline Fox, a Tarrant woman, $72 million for her claims that the company's talc powder products she used caused her ovarian cancer.
The woman, who died before the verdict, was also represented by Beasley-Allen.
"It is time for Johnson & Johnson to face reality, admit the truth that the company has hidden for decades, and end the litigation by taking care of the thousands of women harmed by its talcum powder products," Jere Beasley, principal and founder of Beasley-Allen.
"The message these juries are sending is loud and clear.
They are demanding that Johnson & Johnson must warn women of the dangerous link between talcum powder used for feminine hygiene and its well-documented increased risk of ovarian cancer."
"Gloria Ristesund and the family of Jacqueline Fox have made it very clear – they want other women to be warned about this cancer risk," Beasley stated in the press statement.
"The juries saw documents that proved Johnson & Johnson has known for decades about these risks, and that they not only didn't do anything to warn consumers, they purposefully refused to warn, and covered up the risks.
There are other products on the market that work in a similar way, that use cornstarch instead of talc.
But yet Johnson & Johnson still sells talc and insists there is no danger."
A Johnson & Johnson spokesperson had not responded to a request for comment from AL.com prior to the publication of this story.
But Johnson & Johnson has vehemently denied there is any proven link between their talc-based products and ovarian cancer.
The company's statement, without mentioning the verdicts, says that "following decades of studies conducted by medical experts across the globe, it has been demonstrated through science, research and clinical evidence that few ingredients have the same performance, mildness and safety profile as cosmetic talc."
"Today, talc is accepted as safe for use in cosmetic and personal care products by the European Union, Canada and many other countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Israel, South Africa, Turkey and Indonesia," according to the company statement.
Here are what the company says are the four facts that are important to know about its talc products:
Since the 1970s, talc used in consumer products has been required to be asbestos-free, so JOHNSON's talc products do not contain asbestos, a substance classified as cancer-causing.
The company's sources for talc are routinely evaluated using a sophisticated battery of tests designed to ensure compliance with all global standards.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which identifies potential risk factors for many diseases, has not identified talc as a risk factor for ovarian cancer.
Two widely accepted studies that followed women over a lengthy period of time—the Nurses' Health Study by the Harvard School of Public Health (published in 2009) and the Women's Health Initiative Observational Cohort by the U.S. National Institutes of Health (published in 2014)—found no association between talc and ovarian cancer.
An extensive review of all data on talc safety that was published in 2015 by the independent Cosmetic Ingredient Review Expert Panel concluded "talc is safe in the present practices of use and concentration described in this safety assessment."
Beasley, however, in the statement says that documents shown to the jury during the trial indicated that Johnson & Johnson's own consultants advised the company that numerous scientific studies supported a link between genital use of talcum powder and an increased risk of ovarian cancer.
The statement cites a 1997 letter written by Dr. Alfred Wehner, a paid consultant, that warned Johnson & Johnson executives that anyone who continued to deny the evidence presented by these studies "...will be perceived by the public like it perceives the cigarette industry: denying the obvious in the face of all evidence to the contrary."
The Beasley statement says "there are multitude of internal documents revealing that Johnson & Johnson knew of the cancer risk associated with its talc products."
Ovarian cancer is diagnosed in 25,000 women each year and more than 14,000 die each year from the disease.
Expert testimony at trial revealed at least 45,000 women have died as a result of ovarian cancer that could be attributed to talcum powder use on the genitals, and an estimated 2,500 women will die within the next year as a result of talc use, according to the Beasley statement.
Besides calling for an end to the nationwide litigation – dozens of cases are still pending - Beasley called upon Johnson & Johnson to establish a compensation fund "that will be adequate to compensate all of the thousands of victims who have suffered greatly because of Johnson & Johnson's intentional wrongdoing."
"We are also calling on this company to either pull the talc products from the market or at the very least give an adequate warning to women so they can make an informed choice," Beasley stated.
"If Johnson & Johnson refuses, our law firm and those other firms working with us are dedicated to continuing our mission, and that is to obtain total and complete justice for all of Johnson & Johnson's victims.
The ball is in their court and our hope is Johnson & Johnson will change its corporate culture and do the right thing."