WebMD News from HealthDay
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, May 11, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Pregnant women are encouraged to get plenty of folic acid in their diet or through vitamin supplements , to protect their babies against birth defects of the brain and spinal cord.
But a new study suggests that excessive amounts of folate (vitamin B9) and vitamin B12 in a mother's body might increase a baby's risk of developing an autism spectrum disorder .
"The new research question before us is to understand the optimal dose," said co-researcher Daniele Fallin.
She is a professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore.
"Some [folate] is a good thing.
It does appear the levels in the body could get too high, and that would be a bad thing," she said.
"Supplementation is indeed an important thing," Fallin added.
"We would not want anyone to interpret from this that they should stop taking vitamin supplements if they are intending to get pregnant or if they are pregnant."
In the study, mothers who had very high blood levels of folate at delivery were twice as likely to have a child with autism compared to mothers with normal folate levels.
Researchers also found that mothers with excessive B12 levels were three times as likely to have a child with autism .
The risk was greatest among mothers who had excess levels of both folate and B12 -- their risk was over 17 times that of a mother with normal levels of both nutrients, the investigators reported.
However, the study only found an association and could not prove that high levels caused an increased risk of autism .
The study findings are scheduled for presentation Friday at the International Meeting for Autism Research in Baltimore.
Folate is found naturally in fruits and vegetables , while the synthetic version, folic acid, is used to fortify cereals and breads in the United States, and in vitamin supplements.
However, expecting mothers shouldn't toss away their supplements, the researchers stressed.
The study also found that women who took folate and B12 supplements three to five times a week were less likely overall to have a child with autism, particularly when they're taken during the first and second trimesters, Fallin said.