Lower rates of self-harm, accidental injury seen
WebMD News from HealthDay
HealthDay Reporter
THURSDAY, May 12, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Lithium outperforms newer mood stabilizers in the treatment of bipolar disorder , a new study has found.
Patients taking lithium had lower rates of self-harm and unintentional injury compared to those taking other bipolar drugs, such as valproate (Depacon, Depakote), olanzapine ( Zyprexa ) or quetiapine ( Seroquel ), said lead researcher Joseph Hayes.
He is a fellow of psychiatry at University College London.
"This is important because people with bipolar disorder are 15 times more likely to die by suicide and six times more likely to die by accidental injury than the general population," Hayes explained.
People taking one of the alternative mood stabilizers were 40 percent more likely to harm themselves compared to patients on lithium, Hayes and his colleagues found.
And people on valproate or quetiapine were 32 percent to 34 percent more likely to fall victim to unintentional injury, most likely while experiencing a manic episode, the researchers said.
"Lithium still is the gold standard for the treatment of bipolar .
We really haven't had a medication that surpasses lithium, as far as we know," said Dr. Raphael Braga.
He is physician-in-charge of the Center for Treatment and Research of Bipolar Disorder at Zucker Hillside Hospital in Glen Oaks, N.Y., and was not involved with the study.
Hayes noted that lithium has been used for more than half a century to treat bipolar disorder, but it's still not clear how the drug stabilizes a person's mood.
Bipolar disorder, which used to be called manic depression, is characterized by extreme mood swings ranging from emotional highs to depressive lows.
The researchers undertook their study following evidence reviews and studies that suggested lithium might be better than newer medications at preventing suicide and self-harm.
These studies have contended that lithium achieves these results by reducing symptoms such as depression , aggression, risk-taking and impulsive behavior, according to background notes in the study.
Lithium can be hard on the body, the study authors said, increasing a person's risk of kidney and thyroid disease, but even that may have a positive side in bipolar patients.
Because patients must be closely monitored for side effects, they are in more frequent contact with doctors who can pick up on emotional problems that lead to suicide, the researchers contend.