Gates Foundation to help fight malnutrition in India
Wear sunglasses to avoid eye damage
Every fourth COPD patient suffers from depression: Study
Robot that can perform 'soft tissue' surgery
Being overweight throughout shortens lifespan
How booze gives us illusion of happiness
Scientists develop new heart bypass surgery device
Take extra care of eyes this summer: Ophthalmologists
Germany to legalise medicinal marijuana by 2017
More Home Home Life & Style Relationships
Man-Woman
Parenting
Work
Pets
Soul Curry
Ask the expert
Specials
Health & Fitness Health News
Fitness
Diet
Weight Loss
Home Remedies
De-stress
Specials Every Heart Counts
Listen To Your Sugar
Beauty
Photo Stories Relationships
Health & Fitness
Beauty
People
Food
Home & Garden
Fashion
Books
People
Food Food Features
Food Reviews
Bar Reviews
Recipes
Quick Food
Drinks Corner
Specials
Books
Features
Interviews
Book Launches
Write India
Home & Garden
Fashion
Shows
Designers
Trends
Style Guide
Model of the day
Specials
Specials Debate Photos
Videos
ALL
Lakme Fashion Week Summer 2016: Manish Malhotra Paris Fashion Week: Christian Dior RTW Fall 2016 collection 8 popular Indian food myths busted Herbs every woman must know and start using!
10 flowers that are edible just like any food An A to Z guide to feeling happy in life
Evelyn @ La Hair Affaire TV actress in stylish hijab Salman's shoot with his nephews Azhar @ Radio Mirchi 63rd National Film Awards Amar Singh launches Bhouri
Anushka Sharma’s hot sizzling photoshoot Ayushmann Khurrana shares his style mantra Met Gala 2016: Worst dressed celebs Hottest couples at Met Gala 2016 Met Gala 2016: Best dressed celebs Parineeti Chopra credits her weight loss to 'Bollywood pressure'
Would-be-mothers please take note!
IANS | May 5, 2016, 05.21 PM ISTCosmetics may not be safe during pregnancy (Getty Images)Would-be-mothers please take note!
Using personal care products such as soaps and lotions during pregnancy may lead to adverse reproductive effects in your newborns, warns a new study.The findings revealed a link between women who use cosmetics with higher levels of butyl paraben -- commonly used preservative in cosmetics -- to shorter gestational age at birth, decreased birth weight and increased odds of preterm birth.
"The antimicrobial compound -- triclocarban -- mainly added to soaps, is associated with shorter gestational age at birth.
Another common chemical added to lotions and creams -- propyl paraben -- is associated with decreased body length at birth," said Laura Geer from SUNY Downstate Medical Centre in New York, US.
"Our latest study adds to the growing body of evidence showing that endocrine-disrupting compounds can lead to developmental and reproductive problems in animals and in humans," Geer added in a paper published in the Journal of Hazardous Materials.
"Based on this new evidence, the safety of use of these chemicals in our consumer products should be reassessed," Geer pointed out.
"While small-scale changes in birth size may not be of clinical relevance or cause for concern in individual cases, subtle shifts in birth size or timing at the population-level would have major impacts on the risk for adverse birth outcomes," Geer noted.
What causes appetite loss during illness (13:40) New York, May 5 (IANS) Researchers have discovered how an immune system molecule hijacks a brain circuit and reduces appetite when you are inflicted with an illness.
While loss of appetite during illness is common, it contributes to reducing a patient's strength and in cancer patients, it can even shorten lifespan.
The new research points to potential targets for treating loss of appetite and restoring a patient's strength.
"Treating loss of appetite won't cure an underlying disease, but it could help a patient cope," said senior author of the study Bruno Conti, professor at The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) in California, US.
"Many times, loss of appetite can compromise clinical outcome.
A weak individual is less likely to be able to cope with chemotherapy, for instance," Conti said.
Many people recover their appetite after illness.
But in patients with diseases such as cancer or AIDS, loss of appetite can turn into a wasting disease called cachexia, also known as "the last illness" because it can accelerate a patient's decline.
The findings were published in The Journal of Neuroscience.
The researchers believe the circuit affected by an immune molecule called interleukin 18 (IL-18) may be a potential drug target for treating loss of appetite, and possibly support weight loss for those with metabolic disorders.
"IL-18 regulates feeding by locking directly into the neuronal circuitry," Conti said.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia