 
Summers may only feel good with the thought of eating mangoes the whole day long.
After all it's the 'king of all fruits'.
But wait, have you also been skipping this fruit because you're a victim to the perception that mangoes are 'sugar bombs'?
C'mon!
You've been blinded with these notions for so long that you forget to see the hidden health benefits that the superfruit has to offer.
Renowned nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar has often talked about the benefits of mangoes and why you must eat it, especially because the fruit is available only seasonally in a country like India.
To fight the half-truths, you must first be aware of the wonders that mangoes contain.
One cup of mangoes (about 225 grams) contains approximately 105 calories, which, honestly is not too much, considering you gulp down a bottle of juice at a go and that requires you to burn an additional 400 calories (if at all you wish to burn them in the first place).
Now before you jump on to any further weight-loss topics, here are some of the reasons why mangoes should make it to your must-eat list this season.
A great skin cleanser: When applied to the skin directly, mangoes can help unclog your pores and give your skin radiance within minutes.
Mangoes can be applied to all skin types.
All you need to do is slice a mango into thin pieces and keep them on your face for 10 to 15 minutes and then wash your face to see the results.
Alkalises the whole body: The tartaric acid, malic acid, and citric acid present in the fruit is great for maintaining the alkali reserve of the body which basically balances the pH of your body.
This balance can further provide your body with a level of nutrition that can be used to maintain optimal health.
An aphrodisiac: Mango has aphrodisiac qualities and that is why it's called the 'love fruit'.
Mangoes have Vitamin E, which helps in regulating the sex hormone and boosting the sex drive.
Helps fight heat stroke: Whether you juice out the fresh mango or simply pick up the green mango, it will help you cool down and prevent the body from overheating.
This way the kidney also works properly and releases toxins in the right manner.
Keeps cholesterol in check: Mango is high in vitamin C, pectin and fibres which helps in lowering serum cholesterol levels.
This also helps in controlling the heart rate and blood pressure.
Treats dandruff: Mango contains vitamin A which fights dandruff and adds shine to your hair.
It is often used as an ingredient in hair moisturisers.
High in iron for women: Mango is a great source of iron, hence it's a good natural solution for people suffering from anaemia.
Women especially who are pregnant can eat this fruit as it increases the iron and calcium levels.