Published: Friday, 5/6/2016 BY JIM PROVANCE BLADE COLUMBUS BUREAU CHIEF
COLUMBUS — The Ohio House will cast a historic vote Tuesday on whether to legalize marijuana for medical use only.
A special House committee on Thursday voted unanimously to send the full House a revised bill that would prohibit the smoking or burning of marijuana, but would allow its use in plant material, oil, patch, tincture, and edible form.
It would also allow for “vaporization,” using devices similar to electronic cigarettes.
The plan continues to prohibit home-growing of marijuana, requiring patients to obtain their pot from licensed retail dispensaries.
Schuring Enlarge
State Rep. Kirk Schuring (R., Canton), chairman of the Select Committee on Medical Marijuana, said he is convinced marijuana has medical benefits.
“We have a very methodical process under the supervision of a physician licensed by the medical board, to make sure that patients, who are seeking alternative sources of medicine like medical marijuana, have access to it …,” Mr. Schuring said.
“We want to make sure, as we move forward with medical marijuana in Ohio, that we do it right, that it’s safe and efficacious for Ohioans,” he said.
“I think our plan does just that.”
The Senate has not committed to the measure, but Mr. Schuring said he’s been in frequent contact with key members of the chamber and Gov.
John Kasich’s administration on the issue.
Even if quickly passed and signed by the governor, it could be 18 months or more before the system is fully up and running.
Use of pot, even for medical use, would remain illegal in the meantime, a key difference from competing proposed constitutional amendments seeking to qualify for the Nov. 8 ballot.
If approved, Ohio would become the 26th state to have some form of medical marijuana law on its books, some of them in conjunction with recreational marijuana.
While most of those states permit smoking, Ohio would be among the handful, a list that includes recent entries Pennsylvania and Georgia, that do not.
Michigan’s voter-enacted law does allow smoking.
Ohioans for Medical Marijuana is seen as being the most organized and well-funded of various petition efforts as it works to meet a July 6 deadline to submit nearly 306,000 valid signatures of registered voters to qualify for the ballot.
Spokesman Aaron Marshall said he doesn’t believe legislative action will undermine its efforts.
“They did make a few improvements to this,” he said.
“The fact that caregivers won’t be criminals anymore and the fact that there would be an ID card system were both positive developments out of this.”
But he noted that the list of ailments that are automatically considered as qualifying for cannabis is broader in its proposed amendment than in the new version of House Bill 523, leaving out such things as Alzheimer’s and Huntington’s disease.
“There are people who have these conditions who are getting medical marijuana in other states,” Mr. Marshall said.
“There’s science, there’s medicine that backs it up.
For whatever reason, the Ohio House has decided they don’t deserve medical marijuana.”
The bill assumes medical marijuana to be a Schedule II controlled substance, a classification in which dangerous drugs are found to have some medical value.
Federal law still deems marijuana to be a Schedule I drug with no beneficial attributes.
Rep. Tim Brown (R., Bowling Green) was skeptical as he joined the committee a few weeks ago.
But now he agrees cannabis has medical value after hearing from mothers who insist pot helps their epileptic children.
“How do you look in the eyes of these people and not believe the stories that they’re telling us?” he asked.
“Our federal government has been derelict in its duty in studying this sooner and giving us definitive answers.
“But the anecdotal evidence is clear,” he said.
“There are benefits to many people in many different forms, and we’re derelict in our duty if we don’t find a way to get this to them.”
The original bill assumed that lawmakers would tax the product, but now that’s now an open-ended question.
Medicine is typically not taxed.
The bill would also call for a program to help patients who cannot afford to buy their pot, particularly because they would be prohibited from growing their own and would have to rely on licensed retail dispensaries.
A new regulatory commission, named by the governor and House and Senate leaders from both sides of the aisle, would write the rules under which the system would operate and license those participating in it.
Sponsored by Rep. Stephen Huffman (R., Tipp City), an emergency room physician, the bill now specifies the amounts of tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the principal psychoactive element of marijuana, that would be permitted.
The limits would be between 3 and 35 percent for plant material and up to 70 percent for extracts.
Guidelines: Please keep your comments smart and civil.
Don't attack other readers personally, and keep your language decent.
If a comment violates these standards or our privacy statement or visitor's agreement , click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report abuse.
To post comments, you must be a Facebook member.
To find out more, please visit the FAQ .