Each May during Florence Nightingale 's birthday week, the Houston Chronicle joins with local partners and sponsors to celebrate National Nurses Week and the role nurses play in delivering the highest level of care.
"Their role is special because they are in the position of being present with (and for) our patients and their families when they are experiencing their most challenging times."
"The visibility of the nursing profession provided by Salute to Nurses, along with its opportunities, offers the insights to attract prospective students, and as a community college, we offer accessibility to training, which is a huge value for the community," Bell said.
Amanda Fenwick , vice president of San Jacinto College's marketing and public relations, said it is proud to be this year's Salute to Nurses Education Sponsor "... because we understand the critical role we play in training tomorrow's workforce.
Growing up in Houston, as a child, Bowlen lived in the Epps Island neighborhood where she now teaches.
Of course I watched everything, so I was glued to the big window that separated the rest of us from the newborn nursery and I saw that nurse comfort our baby, how gently she touched the bruises on her little face.
Among her mentors are her director - Laurie Combe - whom she looks to as a leader and is challenged to set her personal bar even higher.
"I also have had great nurse mentors in my life, from Conroe Regional to Memorial Hermann - The Woodlands," she said, all of whom she calls "the absolutely amazing people I look up to."
During her tenure at the school, Bowlen has written grants and received more than $50,000 to bring good health and healthy living programs to Epps Island students and their parents.
She also has organized the school's annual Health and Fitness Community Day the past five years.
As one nomination reads, "She can keep a smile on her face when things get crazy, will always go above and beyond what is expected, listen without judgment and advocate for those she serves."
Bowlen calls the school's staff and faculty "the amazing team" and credits PE department head Larissa Tucker; parent liaison Carol Guerrero ; and Miss Ro, her clinical assistant and "her rock," for keeping her "reined in and on task."
That attitude is probably the reason one nominator wrote: "Brandy Bowlen is this school's Super Woman."
In one brief moment three years ago, Rossana "Sunsi" Brual and her family saw their lives turn upside down.
"She never let the cancer define her," wrote Tomball Regional Medical Center's assistant chief nursing officer Michelle Henderson in the posthumous nomination for Brual.
"When her treatments prevented her from being able to safely take care of patients, Sunsi transferred, and while her calling was providing direct patient care to the critically ill, this nurse insisted she continue to make a difference, so she transferred to the quality department.
In her role as quality analyst, she was able to use her clinical knowledge and experience navigating the electronic medical record to abstract core measures.
"Sunsi worked collaboratively with staff, physicians and nurse leaders to improve compliance with core measures and patient outcomes.
She developed tools to be used by the bedside staff and collaborated with respiratory therapy to encourage them to help with smoking cessation education for patients."
In her nomination of Brual, her colleague, Johanna Gravesmill, remembered "Sunsi" working nights in CCU until she was put on light duty as she struggled with cancer, "so I met her about nine months ago, when she began working in the quality department.
She remained focused on patient care and truly dedicated her life to making a difference in the lives of others.
"Our hospital has lost a bright light in her passing, but her legacy of compassion remains.
Brenda Butler , RN, wrote this about her dear friend and co-worker: "Sunsi Brual lost her three-year battle with cancer sooner than we had expected.
During her illness, we all were honored to be able to bring Sunsi back into the CCU, where she had cared for so many patients during her career.
"Being the fighter she was, Sunsi refused to be deterred by her illness and she kept her spirits high," Butler added.
"This nurse also continued to work between chemotherapy and radiation treatments, remaining optimistic and vigilant.
She set the bar high and raised it higher every year for all of us, pushing us to levels we never imagined."
Brual's colleague Kay Dillard wrote: "She was everything a nurse should be and deserves to be recognized.
Betty Clark , RN IV, delirium grant educator and research nurse - Houston Methodist Hospital
After teaching appointments at Piedmont Community College and Austin Peay University, Clark - who doesn't pass up an opportunity to provide care to colleagues and co-workers - moved to Texas, where she served as director of nursing education for 15 years at The Institute for Rehabilitation and Research (TIRR), a freestanding rehabilitation hospital.
During that time, she created independent education services to teach seminars, including certifications.
She then joined Houston Methodist Hospital as a clinical development specialist and helped create lesson plans for orienting new nurses and continuing education (CE) presentations.
During this time, Clark was instrumental in touching the lives of many new nurses at Houston Methodist and helping them launch careers.
As the opportunity to work within a grant to increase awareness and prevention of delirium in geriatric patients came about, Clark welcomed her new role as nurse educator, teaching novice and experienced nurses about delirium (confusion related to illness or medications), its negative consequences and how to recognize the dangerous syndrome earlier in hospitalization.
In her current role at Houston Methodist, Clark's passion for teaching and her love of nursing are evident.
"With the delirium project," one nominator wrote, "in the last three years, Betty has educated almost 3,000 nurses across the (Houston) Methodist Hospital System.
In turn, it has helped identify cases of delirium earlier in the hospital stay and extra care can be taken for the frail patients.
"She is the lead nurse educator, championing a change of outcomes for delirium patients to the nursing staff in all five Houston Methodist Hospitals, which consist of a large, academic center and four community hospitals.
It is a huge undertaking to be the lead nurse educator for such an immense project, but Betty has successfully instilled delirium assessment as part of nurses' daily routine, emphasizing the value of cognition as part of a patient's overall well-being."
Clark calls her current assignment "the highlight of my career, allowing me to use every degree, every certification and every level of training.
School nurse Becky Cushen, RN, assessed the incident and with the help of a faculty member, began administering CPR while another faculty went to get the school's automated external defibrillator (AED).
Thanks to quick response and teamwork, Cushen's expertise and assessment skills, and having the right medical equipment on hand, the student survived.
"I earned my nursing degree and my RN 30 years ago at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
My son had been out ill for several days, only to return to school with a lot of make-up work and examinations at the end of the grading period.
Apparently there was a staff meeting that same morning and my son was not allowed to proceed to tutorials.
"She ensures my child checks his blood sugar levels regularly as scheduled and provides educational medical advice to him.
About being selected as one of the Chronicle's Top 10 Nurses, Cushen said she had read about the award for many years, but never expected to be honored.
Ann Demny , RN, newborn and infant screening coordinator - Texas Children's Hospital
In addition, Demny has been involved in the critical congenital heart disease (CCHD) screening and has trained more than 400 nurses at TCH.
She also collaborates with leaders of community hospitals to bring awareness and education of CCHD screening to those facilities.
My knowledge of her abilities is based on more than 30 years of working with her to improve patient testing and treatment at Texas Children's Hospital.
I have had numerous opportunities to work closely with her, both personally and professionally, and have developed a great appreciation of her knowledge, experience and expertise.
"I have seen, first-hand, her abilities as a trailblazer and exceptional leader, as she was able to standardize and operationalize retinopathy testing for premature infants and newborn blood screenings in advance of state mandates or reported outcomes.
With her direction, resident participation was modified to ensure the patient's and family's needs were met first.
"Demny has obtained a heightened level of success within Texas Children's Hospital due to her communication skills and as an effective teacher and process manager.
Whether it's communicating with providers, hospital leadership, family members or support staff, Ann is successful in understanding and subsequently complying to meet regulatory requirements.
"As an instructor for neonatal resuscitation, she further refined her ability to lead and educate national and international health care providers ... and I have an immense appreciation for her, personally and professionally."
Malissa Gonzalez , RN, director of emergency and observation services - Tomball Regional Medical Center
As the single mother of three (she has recently married and her family now includes seven children), she attended Prairie View A&M University's College of Nursing , leaving Brenham early each morning to navigate her commute to Houston in order to earn a Bachelor of Science in Nursing.
Now working on a master's degree in nursing leadership, Gonzalez said one thing she learned in her undergrad experience was it's OK to ask questions and it's OK to admit you don't know or have a weakness, but you must have the ability to find the answer, develop weaknesses into strengths and figure it out.
In her nomination, Tomball Regional Medical Center assistant chief nursing officer Michelle Henderson said, "Over the past year, she has led her team in the successful opening of a Provider-Based Emergency Department as well as an expansion project in the main emergency department.
She supports and mentors her charge nurses and inspires the staff to help meet the organization's mission of providing the highest quality health care and exceptional service to every patient and family.
Under Malissa's leadership, the emergency department has had a significant reduction in the number of patients who leave without being seen."
Comfortable wearing many hats, Gonzalez said the hospital's new emergency department, located in Magnolia, has been embraced enthusiastically by the community.
"We also have helicopter contracts and just recently (transported) a burn patient from Magnolia to UTMB - Galveston," she said, "and we provide medical coverage for athletic events, hold Teddy Bear clinics (teaching basic first aid) for Boy and Girl Scouts working on medical badges, plus we've provided community health education opportunities."
"That's an extremely important field," she said, "but I realized it was not my passion, so I started working in the preventative aspect of community health nursing."
When the school's health-science teacher asked if Jewitt would develop a rotation through her clinic to supplement the limited rotations they were sharing with another school at the hospital, Jewitt jumped at the chance to accommodate more students thinking about health careers.
Jewitt finds having students rotating through her clinic a fun change of pace.
"She works with us to create management plans for our diabetic and asthmatic students and is never too busy to give a second opinion.
I hear stories of challenging relationships other athletic trainers have with their school nurse and these remind me how lucky we are to have Janet as ours.
We work well as a team, and this enables us to provide the best medical care to our entire student body."
Sherry Nelson , RN, JD, director of clinical effectiveness and patient safety - Houston Methodist West Hospital
My professor, Dr. Teresa Christy, helped me know that individuals deserved to be proud in the difference they could make, whatever their specialty," Nelson said.
In Minnesota, where nurses are unionized, she was active in areas impacted by collective bargaining and, to find an answer to her question about why nurses believed unions and going on strike was necessary, she enrolled in law school, where she earned the Juris Doctor degree.
"Law school also taught me that nurses need to document in order to protect their patients, but health care is complicated, which I've always known, but the depth of knowledge was what I was after," she said.
"It's important for all employees have the room to be creative, and it's better for all involved if you can put fun into the workplace," she said, adding she regularly gives out rewards, which may be large or small.
"I invite employees to use me as a sounding board and to brainstorm ideas to make everyone successful.
She also finds time to work internationally with hospitals in Mexico, providing consultation on risk and safety programs, and recently serving as a guest speaker at the Latin American Quality Conference in Mexico City.
One employee commented about how Nelson gives selflessly of herself: "She is the first to organize a fundraiser for United Way, to put together backpacks for children to head back to school with fresh supplies or buy presents for families at Christmastime.
Houston is 185 miles from Beeville, where Esther Valdez grew up, yet her career in nursing has allowed her to make many much longer journeys, shepherding thousands of patients through diagnosis, the unknowns and to a more positive place - breast cancer survival.
Her awards have been many, including Tenet's Hero of the Year in 2008 for excellence in nursing and her hard work, but her prized possession is an album compiled by the eight founders of Care, Share and Be Aware, the breast cancer support group Valdez has facilitated the past 17 years.
She also was thrilled when the announcement of her selection for the Houston Chronicle's Salute to Nurses was made during the support group's annual celebration of life festivities.
"Initially, I wanted to be a nurse because I was following my older sister through the college prep VICA (Vocational Industrial Clubs of America) program in health care at school, but because I loved taking care of people in my first after-school job (she was 16), I think I always wanted to become a nurse," she said.
This is a nurse who makes weekend rounds and house calls to check on patients.
But her journey in becoming the excellent nurse navigator and facilitator she is today wasn't without a few bumps in the road.
She loves helping coordinate all the events at The Breast Center, especially the annual reception for the Care, Share and Be Aware support group members.
"It was all very tiring, so I asked if we could provide a place for her to rest in between treatments and not spend the time traveling back and forth.
As a nominator wrote, "This remarkable nurse visited this same patient and her family across town several times during her transition at the end of her life."
She has participated in the Komen Race for the Cure for 16 years and has encouraged family and friends to come and support survivors riding buses Houston Northwest provides the day of the event.
Saeed Yacouby , RN, MS, DNP, certified registered nurse anesthetist and chief of CRNA Group - the Heart Center, Texas Children's Hospital
In high school, Saeed Yacouby made the decision to seek a career in the hospital setting.
A fellow nurse anesthetist/nominator wrote: "Saeed paved the way for nurse practitioners at Texas Children's Hospital, and because of the solid foundation of trust he built, we have grown into a practice of 30 CRNAs that is vital for quality patient care.
"Today he gives lectures to student nurse anesthetists, presents at national meetings and is dedicated to the pediatric anesthesia team at TCH.
In working with infants and children with congenital heart problems, Yacouby said many of the patients he sees are at high risk.
In another nomination, the CRNA was praised for his compassion and humility: "He is effective leader who has built a world-class team of CRNAs dedicated to the care of children with heart disease undergoing various procedures and interventions.
I recall how his attention to detail and his swift response helped recognize the dislodgement of an atrial septal defect (ASD) device that had been placed inside the heart of a child.
Saeed was carefully monitoring the child, and as soon as he noticed changes in the heart rhythm, he alerted the entire team, and as he suspected, the device had dislodged.
"I salute Saeed as a model who represents our outstanding CRNA group and proudly sets an example for excellence in nursing care and teamwork."
"Saeed's work ethic, coupled with his personality, make him a role model.
He serves as a leader and mentor among CRNAs and sacrifices his time for the best interests of the department."