India building 160-strong lab network to tackle bio-terrorism
With an eye on 2018 elections, RSS shunts out its political liason and brings fresh face
Metro clocks one million passengers in 10 days
Google launches free public Wi-Fi service at five rly stations
Karnataka HC dismisses a father's habeas corpus plea seeking custody of his 39 month old child
Steyn, Broad, toughest I have faced in Tests: Watson
GMR Energy divests 30 percent stake to Malaysia firm at $300 mn
Aizawl brace up for Sporting test in Fed Cup (Preview)
EI announces results of its national-level annual scholastic test
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party
Carol, Shweta flaunt baby bump!
Gandhis have "secrets" of Modi Beauty and the Beast Musical Brahmotsavam launch Celebs at an event Raai's b'day party
Fake degrees row: BJP presents proof of PM Narendra Modi's degrees Agusta case: War of words between Jairam Ramesh and Subramanian Swamy Sainik colony issue: No such land has been allotted, says Mehbooba Mufti Sports persons best for Olympics ambassador: Ashwini Ponnappa Chopper scam: PM Modi's stinging attack on Gandhis Aam Aadmi Party MLA attacked in Delhi
Manu Aiyappa | TNN | May 9, 2016, 11.02 PM ISTBENGALURU: The state's poultry farmers who are already reeling under the twin blows of drought and acute water scarcity are now affected by the outbreak of bird flu.A day after Karnataka government sounded high alert following the detection of bird flu at a poultry farm in Bidar district, poultry products, usually the second best choice when it comes to proteins, reported a drop in sales of 20-25 per cent.
The poultry industry, which suffered heavily when the virus hit the country some eight years ago, is worried how this news would pan out in the coming days.
"It is quite common for us to experience bird losses in the summer due to high temperatures and contaminated water.
But the outbreak of bird flu has delivered a big blow especially for farmers who have invested in lakhs," said Gopal Gowda, a poultry and dairy farmer based in Rajankunte off Bengaluru.
Though there were reports of bird flu deaths in Bidar, he said the fear among consumers after government sounded high alert brought down the sales.
K S Ashok Kumar, president of the Karnataka Poultry Farmers' and Breeders' Association, said, every time when there is a bird flu scare, the poultry industry is generally the target though the other free flying birds mainly migratory fauna that fly close to our homes are the bigger threat than the chickens in the organised sector.
After the bird flu scare a few years ago, he said.most of the organised poultry sector have taken up bio-security measures as a preventive measure to ward off straying animals into the farms that can cause the infection to enter and spread.
Kumar said the virus to poultry birds in Bidar could have spread after they came in contact with migratory birds as the poultry farm is located on the national highway there.
Individual members of the association, however, are worried.
"The word will spread fast and could lead to fall in demand," an association member said.
Karnataka has about nine crore poultry birds in the organized sector that produces about three crore eggs a day, supplying to different parts of the country.
Meanwhile, there are reports of surge in demand for red meat and pork.
Riazuddin, a mutton seller, said, "The business on Monday generally is dismal but for a change, we had good business".
Culling on Tuesday Kalaburagi: With a fresh outbreak of bird flu being reported in Bidar, the mass culling of more than 1.5 lakh chicken will be undertaken on Tuesday morning.
After the death of some 8,000 chicken recently, birds samples were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal which confirmed that the sent ones are positive for H5 strain of Avian Influenza.
"It was decided to immediately commence the culling of birds and destruction of eggs and feed material among other things so as to control further spread of the disease without loss of time," said animal husbandry department officials.On Monday, a team of officials arrived to Bidar from Bengaluru and held discussions with local leaders.
They directed the district administration not to sell the eggs in the taluk and dig huge pits to bury the birds.
About 50 teams comprising one doctor and four his assistants have been formed to destroy the infected poultry.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia