I got the news of Prince's death on my phone as I walked toward Tulane's campus shortly before noon April 21.
I had been invited there to talk to students in a media and criminal justice course.
Before class started we chatted about the 57-year-old superstar's surprising demise.
Near the end of the class we talked about the increasing compassion for Americans hooked on opioids and how it stands in stark contrast to the demonization of Americans who were hooked on, say, crack cocaine.
It would eventually become clear that our discussion about Prince and our discussion about drugs were related.
According to multiple reports out of Minnesota, Prince had been taking opioids for chronic pain, and there is reason to believe that he took more than his body could handle.
According to those reports, Prince's inner circle had contacted a California doctor who specializes in treating patients with a dependency on opioids.
The New York Times quotes an unnamed source who says that Prince himself was willing to be treated .
But the help arrived too late.
Dr. Howard Kornfield, who has a practice in Mill Valley, Calif., couldn't get to Prince immediately.
So he sent his son, Andrew, to assess the situation.
Andrew Kornfield has been identified as the person who called 911 after finding the performer's lifeless body in an elevator at his Paisley Park compound.
No other report about Prince has left me as sad as that New York Times story about his private struggle with chronic pain and painkillers.
He may have lived if the rescue mission had kicked into high gear just a few hours earlier.
Jerrold C. Winter, a professor of pharmacology and therapeutics, says at Slate.com that while there's no clear-cut scientific definition of addiction, it can be thought of as "compulsive and uncontrollable drug craving and seeking."
That's not the same, he writes, as physical dependence on a drug.
He says that among "those who do develop dependence, only a small fraction will become addicted, and an even smaller number will overdose ...
Sufferers of chronic pain are not compulsively craving and seeking drugs .
They are looking for relief from their pain."
But opioids don't narrowly target the parts of a body that are aching, he writes.
While they dampen pain, they can also shut down respiration.
Winter's insight is helpful, but before Prince died, where were the national reports distinguishing between physical dependence and addiction?
I wish expressing compassion didn't feel so political.
But the truth should be obvious: The sadness of a situation is less likely to cause our hearts to ache than our feeling of kinship to the people in that situation.
That was the thrust of last month's column about the April 9 homicide of former Saints defensive end Will Smith.
His killing was the talk of New Orleans and much of the country – not because killings are rare here but because Smith was famous.
That Smith column begins with a reference to Ankara resident Liz Cookman who asked in a column in The Guardian why the world hasn't stopped and grieved after multiple terrorist attacks in Turkey.
The answer is above: Compassion can be political.
The way we shrug at certain terrorist acts is similar to the way we shrug at certain homicides is similar to the way we shrug at certain folks' dependence on drugs.
In a 1983 performance recorded at The Saenger Theater shortly before his 43 rd birthday, Richard Pryor reveals that for the first time since he was 14 he's managed to live without drugs or alcohol.
But with sobriety, he says, came his shocking realization at the number of people getting high.
You even hear old ladies, Pryor says, politely asking, "Give me that blue one, and give me another red one, please."
"They call it an epidemic now," Pryor says.
"That means white folks are doing it.
'Cause y'all used to drive through our neighborhoods... and go (Here Pryor adopts a tone of pity) 'Oh, look at that.
Isn't that terrible?'
Then you get home, your 14-year-old be f---ed up (and) you go 'Oh my God, it's an epidemic!'
Maybe next time you see black people in trouble, you'll help."
Then he pauses.
"Maybe."
Did you see the March 28 NPR.org headline " Treating the Tiniest Opioid Patients ?"
Notice, a friend said, how much better that turn of phrase sounds than "crack baby," a term that – transcripts show – NPR used repeatedly and uncritically in the 1990s.
NPR describing newborns as baby junkies isn't the solution.
That's the primary frustration with navigating such politics.
One is tempted to say: Report this news the way you always have, but asking that tiny opioid patients get the crack-baby treatment would be asking for other humans to be denied compassion.
When what one wants is compassion for all.