Publix has announced two recalls for possible Listeria contamination of products sold at its stores.
The company released a press statement in early May reporting a voluntary recall of the store's Wheatberry Salad and and the Publix Sweet and Salty Almond Bars.
The salad, sold in the deli area of the store, is being recalled in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina and Tennessee due to potentially contaminated sunflower kernels.
“While the product is no longer available on store shelves, we have issued a voluntary recall because of our commitment to food safety and to advise our customers who may still have this product at home,” said Maria Brous, Publix media and community relations director.
“No illnesses have been reported to date in connection with the Wheatberry Salad.
Consumers who have purchased the products in question may return the product to their local store for a full refund."
The company's almond bars also include potentially contaminated sunflower seeds.
However, these were believed to be contaminated in a very specific batch.
Publix released the following description:
Publix Sweet and Salty Almond Bars – 41415-11205 – Best by Dec 07 16 and Best by Dec 08 16.
This product was distributed nationwide, officials said.
While not actually distributed at Publix at all, the company has also released information on a third possible listeria contamination in CRF Frozen Foods which provides frozen fruits and vegetables.
All affected products have the best by dates or sell by dates between April 26, 2016 and April 26, 2018.
These include approximately 358 consumer products sold under 42 separate brands including those listed in the CRF Frozen Foods website.
Listeria monocytogenes (L.mono) is an organism, which can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people, and others with weakened immune systems.
Although healthy individuals may suffer only short-term symptoms such as high fever, severe headache, stiffness, nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea, listeria infection can cause miscarriages and stillbirths among pregnant women.
At this time, none of the products has resulted in a reported illness.
Company expands recall to 5 million pounds of chicken