Three cheers for Raghav Chandak, a cancer patient who triumphed over all odds by scoring 95.8 percent in Class 10 ICSE Board exams 2016, the young boy proved that nothing comes free in life.
Indeed, he has paid a huge price to score this good.
How this young spirit fought?
Having been diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), Raghav didn?
?t lose hope to compete with all his strength for the board exams.
The boy, who attended school only for a period of two months, however prepared the necessary in a hospital bed, while going through chemotherapy
Manoj Chandak, the proud father, applauded his son?
?s fighting spirit: "He was in hospital for one-and-a-half months at a stretch.
And then he had to go for about seven days each month to the hospital for chemotherapy which weakened his immune system but not the spirit to fight."
Together we can, and together we will:
It is quite evident that Raghav was not in a position to walk alone.
Almost everyone in his life came forward to help him.
Raghav, who studies at the Heritage School in Kolkata, got a lot of help from his teachers.
Raghav's teachers used to arrange notes for him, be it class notes or easy-to-understand notes from the textbooks
Moreover, his cousin also helped him.
"My cousin who also studies in the same class supplied all notes to me," the 16-year-old boy told PTI
A special bench of teachers was arranged for him according to his time, that too outside school, as other students were vulnerable to the infection
Although his family was not sure whether he would be able to take the examination or not, teachers and school authorities extended a massive helping hand towards him.
They showed firm determination to save his essential time and health.
"We thought he will not be able to appear for the exams.
We went to the school and told them about it.
They said, you take care of the medical condition and we will take care of his studies," the father said.
"I would not have been able to do this without everyone's support - my parents, teachers, friends, cousin and our family doctor," said Raghav, a football fan who aspires to join IIT one day.
Sooner or later, his dreams will define its path as the boy is highly determined.
Indeed, resilient Raghav has taught us a lesson that everything is possible if desired.
We wish him a healthy future.
For information on more latest news and updates, click here.