Bored with the treadmill?
Not seeing the results you want?
It's time to supercharge your treadmill time.
Treadmill workouts can be some of the most efficient, challenging, calorie-burning routines around.
The key is intervals.
With intervals, instead of trudging along at a steady pace, you'll mix up your speed and add floor exercises into your routine.
Here are five treadmill workouts designed by Cindy Wasilewski, fitness manager at The Lodge at Woodloch, a Pennsylvania spa, and Jeff Baird, owner of Chaos Conditioning in Atlanta.
You'll get a great workout in 20, 30, or 60 minutes.
Keep an eye on your heart rate to make sure you're getting the most out of your workout but not pushing too hard.
First, calculate your maximum heart rate, which is 220 minus your age.
If you're a beginner, shoot for 50% to 65% of your maximum heart rate; 60% to 75% if intermediate level; and 70% to 85% for experienced exercisers.
Adjust the following workouts as necessary to keep your heart rate in these ranges.
Besides a treadmill, you'll need hand weights and a stability ball for the floor exercises.
As always, check with your doctor before you start a new exercise program .
Keep an eye on your heart rate to make sure you're getting the most out of your workout but not pushing too hard.
Ask your doctor what your target heart rate should be.
One way is to first calculate your maximum heart rate, which is 220 minus your age.
Then he may suggest if you're a beginner, to shoot for 50% to 65% of your maximum heart rate; 60% to 75% if intermediate level; and 70% to 85% for experienced exercisers.
If you are on certain medicines or have medical problems, he may suggest different ranges.
Adjust the following workouts as necessary to keep your heart rate in your recommended range.
Besides a treadmill, you'll need hand weights and a stability ball for the floor exercises.
As always, check with your doctor before you start a new exercise program .
If you've got an hour, here are two treadmill workouts to try.
Wasilewski, who designed both workouts, calls the first one the "No Excuses" routine because it delivers maximum results for the time investment.
The second workout is an interval trek, designed to boost cardiovascular endurance.