Some days, Amy Crawford will spend hours tending to her flower beds, working well into the night.
Other days, the mother of two will have to retreat into bed and rest until mid-afternoon.
“It’s tough,” she says.
“Some days you might see me out doing my walk from here to Commerce Bank.
Another day, after my son goes to school, I’m in bed until he gets home, and then I get dressed so he doesn’t know I’ve been in bed all day.
It’s tough.”
Amy was diagnosed with Lyme disease, a tick-borne illness caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, several years ago after struggling with it for more than two decades.
She now lives with lymphedema, nerve problems, slow processing speed, muscle spasms, and a variety of other physical and neurological issues, all stemming from Lyme disease.
An estimated 34,000 people are diagnosed with Lyme disease each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
May is Lyme Disease Awareness Month.
“I don’t know what normal feels like,” Amy says.
“I can’t tell you the last time I felt normal.
It’s a constant pain.”
During the summer of 1988, Amy Crawford traveled to New Canaan, Connecticut, with several friends to vacation between her senior year of high school and freshman year at Stephens College.
“I remember coming home and I’d taken a shower, and my mom asked what a mark was,” Amy Crawford says.
“I said I didn’t know.
It was a huge bull’s-eye.
In 1988, Lyme disease, especially in the Midwest, wasn’t prevalent.”
Soon after that summer, she began to feel flu-like symptoms and a general sense that something wasn’t right, Amy says.
At one point, doctors thought she’d had a stroke and she was diagnosed with Bell’s Palsy.
Doctors also thought she might have lupus and arthritis.
“Time just kept going on and on.
I’d go to doctors and they’d say it was all in my head.
That I was fine.
That nothing was wrong with me,” Amy says.
She began to experience neurological symptoms, including memory loss, confusion and an inability to make rational decisions.
Her anxiety increased.
She was eventually diagnosed with bipolar disorder because of her neurological symptoms.
At one point, she was taking up to 42 pills a day to battle the symptoms.
“I was in and out of psych institutes,” she says.
“... I’d had probably a dozen electroconvulsive therapies because they were trying to shock it out of me.
It was horrible.”
As a young mom, she struggled to remember her children’s names and often fell.
Her joints hurt and her hands and feet were numb.
She had earned degrees in child development, psychology and social work, but she had difficulty working.
“It’s frustrating as a parent when you don’t know what’s wrong with your daughter.
I knew she wasn’t crazy.
It’s very painful for the family because none of us really understood what was going on with her,” Steve Crawford, Amy’s father, says.
Unwilling to accept the bipolar diagnosis, Amy continued to search for answers.
More than 20 years after the summer in Connecticut, she went to see a nurse practitioner who ordered a blood test, the first time one had been done, she says.
It came back positive for Lyme disease.
“It was a relief,” Amy says.
“I’d told the doctors I wasn’t crazy.
Something was wrong with me.
You don’t physically look sick, but you are sick.
It’s an invisible disease.”
After the diagnosis, Amy began a daily intravenous antibiotic regime.
She now has a portacath for antibiotics and takes a variety of medications and vitamins daily.
She still struggles with complications from the disease, including shingles, joint pain, vision issues and memory loss.
She has had to rely on a cane and walker to get around.
Rain and cold weather make it more painful, she says.
“I get up every morning, and the first thing I do is run the hottest water I can stand to get my hands moving,” she says.
“I run them under hot water and then I’ll get my son up and make him breakfast.”
The memory loss and neurological issues are worse than the physical pain, Amy says.
She has to keep track of appointments and memos with sticky notes inside her kitchen cabinets (“I have sticky notes for sticky notes,” she says) and often can’t remember where she places items in her house.
“Once I was at IKEA with my son when they first opened and I forgot what I was doing there,” Amy says.
“I forgot who I was with.
You panic.
To not remember your own child’s name and trying to find something with their name on it so you remember it, it’s hard.”
She no longer works full time outside the home, but occasionally substitutes at Central High School.
She finds solace in her gardening and often works for hours at a time when her body is “loosened up,” she says, fearing that if she stops, the pain and tightness will return.
“I work outside and I’ll have my headlights on on my car and I’ll be working outside in my yard,” she says.
“My neighbor will come out and say ‘Doll, it’s 1 a.m., you need to go to bed.’ Then I’ll come inside and start doing something inside.
I just keep moving.”
She attends a support group for people with Lyme disease in Kansas City once a month.
It can be difficult for family and friends to understand the reality of the disease because it’s seemingly invisible, Amy says.
“It’s hard for people to understand the pain you are in because you have makeup on.
You are cleaned up,” she says.
“Nobody wants to hear that you are sick all the time.
They don’t.”
She now sees about two doctors a month, including her primary caregiver in Basking Ridge, New Jersey.
She had been trying hyperbaric medicine in Kansas City, but had to stop due to a ruptured eardrum.
“When I take my medication, all it does is kills what’s on the surface,” she says.
“It can’t get down in.
It’s like you are in remission, like you have cancer.”
As of 2014, 96 percent of confirmed cases of Lyme disease were reported in 14 states, including Connecticut.
It is relatively rare in Missouri, says Dr. Scott Folk, director of adult infectious diseases at Mosaic Life Care.
“The most common tick around here in Northwest Missouri is something called Lone Star ticks.
Lone Star ticks are not known to transmit Lyme disease, according to the CDC,” Dr.
Folk says.
“... if you were to go out and tell me you got a tick bite, the chances are you got a Lone Star tick bite.”
Outdoor activities, including mushroom hunting, can put people at risk for tick bites, which can transmit a variety of illnesses, Dr.
Folk says.
He encourages people to take precautions, including wearing proper protective clothing, using repellant and bathing soon after exposure to wooded areas.
“Knowing that the ticks are so small, it’s very easy to overlook an embedded tick,” he says.
“You can just brush them off and not think twice about it, thinking it’s a piece of dirt or debris.”
Almost three decades after she was bit while in Connecticut, Amy Crawford encourages people to take precautions against ticks and stay vigilant about personal health care.
“Check yourself,” she says.
“It’s one disease you don’t want.”