Imagine going running without shoes, and feeling better for it.
San Francisco personal trainer Kate Clemens once did that, 6 miles into an 18-mile race along the Pacific Crest Trail.
After feeling a sharp pain in her knee , she took off her shoes and ran barefoot.
Without shoes, her knee pain disappeared, and she was able to finish the race.
"I felt a difference the minute I took my shoes off," she recalls.
"When I’m barefoot, my alignment is better and I run more from my core."
Clemens and a growing number of runners are hitting the streets and trails without their sneakers.
Fans of barefoot running believe wearing shoes hinders their natural stride, causing pain and injuries.
But it's not for everyone.
So is this trend right for you?
"It’s grounding to feel the earth beneath my feet."
-- personal trainer Kate Clemens
The big difference is in how your foot strikes the ground.
Runners who wear shoes tend to strike the ground with the heels first.
This gait, called a heel strike, generates a force up to three times the body’s weight , which can lead to injuries such as Achilles tendinitis and stress fractures .
In contrast, barefoot runners land on the balls of their feet, generating less impact when their feet strike the ground.
"We’ve over-supported our feet [in running shoes] to the point that our foot doesn’t have to do what it’s designed to do," says Irene S. Davis, PhD, professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation at Harvard Medical School and director of the Spaulding National Running Center.
"When you support a muscle, it doesn’t have to work as hard.
When it doesn’t have to work as hard, it gets weak."
Davis believes your body instinctively knows how to adjust when you shed your shoes or run in "barefoot shoes," extremely lightweight shoes designed to mimic barefoot running.
Barefoot runners shorten their strides, reducing the impact on their lower bodies, and automatically flex their knees , hips, and ankles for a softer landing on hard surfaces, Davis says.