More Home Home Life & Style Relationships
Man-Woman
Parenting
Work
Pets
Soul Curry
Ask the expert
Specials
Health & Fitness Health News
Fitness
Diet
Weight Loss
Home Remedies
De-stress
Specials Every Heart Counts
Listen To Your Sugar
Beauty
Photo Stories Relationships
Health & Fitness
Beauty
People
Food
Home & Garden
Fashion
Books
People
Food Food Features
Food Reviews
Bar Reviews
Recipes
Quick Food
Drinks Corner
Specials
Books
Features
Interviews
Book Launches
Write India
Home & Garden
Fashion
Shows
Designers
Trends
Style Guide
Model of the day
Specials
Specials Debate Photos
Videos
ALL
Lakme Fashion Week Summer 2016: Manish Malhotra Paris Fashion Week: Christian Dior RTW Fall 2016 collection 8 popular Indian food myths busted Herbs every woman must know and start using!
10 flowers that are edible just like any food An A to Z guide to feeling happy in life
Triumph lingerie fashion show '16 Parineeti's size zero look Karishma @ store launch Kerry On Kutton: Launch B Positive: On the sets Frederick: Launch
Anushka Sharma’s hot sizzling photoshoot Ayushmann Khurrana shares his style mantra Met Gala 2016: Worst dressed celebs Hottest couples at Met Gala 2016 Met Gala 2016: Best dressed celebs Parineeti Chopra credits her weight loss to 'Bollywood pressure'
Umesh Isalkar Ophthalmologists are recording more and more cases of
ocular tuberculosis, particularly patients with tubercular uveitis, a form of inflammation of the middle layer of the eye caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis
| TNN | May 6, 2016, 11.19 AM IST• The chronic debilitated patients suffering from extreme and severe forms of pulmonary tuberculosis can have ocular manifestations like large choroidal abscesses (pus filled back part of the uvea), fulminating granulomas (severe inflammation), TB endophthalmitis (blinding infection in the eye) and rarely pan-ophthalmitis (entire eye having infection causing blindness)Increasing burden brings forth patients with ocular tuberculosis (Getty Images)Ophthalmologists across the country are recording more and more cases of ocular tuberculosis, particularly patients with tubercular uveitis, a form of inflammation of the middle layer (uvea) of the eye caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis or by the interaction between the body's immune system and mycobacteria.At the big referral centres across the country, the incidence of tuberculous uveitis ranged from 0.6% to 10%, when compared to the US where ocular TB is rare and is diagnosed in only 1 or 2% patients, experts said.
In India, the incidence of tuberculosis is over eight million new cases each year.
"With rising TB cases, we are seeing more and more ocular TB particularly tubercular uveitis cases.
Besides, the volume of active and latent TB cases in India, the rise could also be attributed to diagnostic tools," senior surgeon Jyotirmay Biswas said.
He is the director of uveitis and ocular pathology department at Chennai-based Sankara Nethralaya.
Senior eye surgeon S Natarajan, chairman and managing director of Mumbai-based Aditya Jyot Eye hospital, said, "Treatment of any TB should be done without delay.
Eye check-ups should be mandatory for all confirmed and suspected TB patients."
Besides the increasing presence of infection due to overcrowding, altered immunity patterns, evolving nature of TB bacilli and increasing resistance to conventional treatment, other reasons contribute to the rise of TB uveitis cases.
Ophthalmologists and the rest of the medical fraternity is accepting that TB can affect the eye as well.
Tests like the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and CT scan of the chest have made is possible to prove TB uveitis.
The Advanced Eye Centre at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh is a tertiary care institute of the Union government, a centre of excellence and a referral centre in North India for TB uveitis.
"In my past experience, there used to be an average of at least one or two new cases of TB uveitis every week.Since my relocation to Mumbai, in the last six months, I have seen about ten cases of TB-related uveitis in Mumbai.
The disease burden is much higher with most cases being treated inconsistently due to lack of awareness of varying patterns and treatment protocols," Mumbai-based consultant vitreo-retinal surgeon and uveitis specialist Samyak Mulkutkar, said.
Mulkutkar has spent six years studying ophthalmology and practising vitreo-retina and uveitis as a speciality at PGIMER, Chandigarh.
Tuberculous uveitis can have various manifestations.
The chronic debilitated patients suffering from extreme and severe forms of pulmonary tuberculosis can have ocular manifestations like large choroidal abscesses (pus filled back part of the uvea), fulminating granulomas (severe inflammation), TB endophthalmitis (blinding infection in the eye) and rarely pan-ophthalmitis (entire eye having infection causing blindness).
"The other group of patients having TB choroiditis, vasculitis and other sight-threatening manifestations is increasingly seen in younger and healthier patients with no evidence of cough, fever or symptoms of active pulmonary tuberculosis.
It is this age group that deserves special attention and proper treatment.
Painless and progressive blurring of vision is the main complaint of most patients," Mulkutkar said.
Pune-based eye surgeon Parikshit Gogate, an officebearer of Maharashtra Ophthalmology Association (MOA), said, "Most immuno-compromised patients are prone to TB and they can also have tubercular uveitis.
Besides being seen in patients with active as well as latent TB, tubercular uveitis is also seen in HIV infected, poorly controlled diabetics and malnourished people.
"Ocular TB is treatable and requires treatment for a prolonged period.
"Even after receiving adequate treatment, a small number of patients may have a relapse of the inflammation.
Research is still on about how the TB microbe specifically affects the eye and how it requires to be adequately treated," Pune-based eye surgeon Aditya Kelkar of National Institute of Ophthalmology, said.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia
Lab grown human embryo lives for 14 days
B'luru may give India drones to transport organs
Gujarat, a model for thalassemia prevention
Sleep your way to a healthier heart
Don’t let a migraine take over your life
'Kidney on a chip' device enables safer drug dosing
Common cold may increase diabetes risk in kids
Sleep remains elusive for children with ADHD
Cosmetics may not be safe during pregnancy