A team of Medical Council of India (MCI) on Friday inspected Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGM) to check whether the institute has enough facilities to conduct 150-seat MBBS course.
The inspection took the hospital staff by surprise.
TNN | May 7, 2016, 06.31 AM IST Indore: A team of Medical Council of India (MCI) on Friday inspected Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGM) to check whether the institute has enough facilities to conduct 150-seat MBBS course.
The inspection took the hospital staff by surprise.
The inspection was pending following deficiencies pointed out by the MCI inspectors during inspection conducted in September last year.
The team comprised of Dr S N Sharma, Dr R Shashank and Dr M K Thakur, inspected the college and MY Hospital.
"The team is in the city to inspect the facilities and rectification of deficiencies pointed out last time," said MGMMC public relation officer, Dr Rahul Rokade.
In previous inspection, the MCI team had raised objection on library space problem and MoU copy of CT-MRI facility at the hospital.
"We have sent proposal to state government for establishing central library.
Once the proposal is approved, we will rectify the deficiency," said Dr Rokade.The team members also sought CT-MRI MoU copy as the facility is mandatory to run the medical courses.
As per MCI norms, college need to have its own CT-MRI machine but the college administration had partnered with private party for the facility and they didn't allow the students to use the machines.
This partnership had been objected by a section of faculty as they believe hands-on experience is necessary.
In the MoU with a new partner, college administration has made an agreement that students will be allowed to operate the machines.The delegation also took stock of necessary facilities in hostels, met the heads of the departments and later took views of students about the facilities and standard of education in the college.
MCI team had pointed out 10 deficiencies that includes developing a lecture theatre, inadequate journals, hostel accommodation, central air-conditioning of operation theatres, shortage of mobile x-ray machines, inadequate nursing staff in the hospital, non-availability of museum in anatomy department, blood bank license expiry etc.
Most of the deficiencies have been rectified, only few are left.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia