Harris Teeter on Friday announced a recall of its store-brand frozen organic corn and frozen mixed vegetables over potential listeria contamination, becoming the latest U.S. grocer affected by a massive recall involving the potentially deadly bacteria.
Matthews-based Harris Teeter said the voluntary recall was being done “out of an abundance of caution” due to the potential for the products to be contaminated.
The grocer said the move was tied to voluntary recalls issued by CRF Frozen Foods – a food processor based in Washington state that has issued a list of more than 350 affected products.
Listeria can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people and others with weakened immune systems.
CRF said the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention informed the company seven people from three states have become ill and were hospitalized due to listeria.
Some of those illnesses have been linked to consuming products CRF manufactured or processed, the company said.
Harris Teeter, which was acquired by Cincinnati-based Kroger in 2014, said its recall applies to Harris Teeter Frozen Organic Corn with universal product code number 7203676395, and Harris Teeter Frozen Organic Mixed Vegetables with the UPC number 7203676393.
Harris Teeter said that while it stocks those two products, it does not currently stock those specific UPCs.
Products with those UPCs may have been sold in Harris Teeter stores between October 19 and December 24, Harris Teeter said.
Customers who bought the products with those UPCs during that period can return them to Harris Teeter for a full refund, the grocer said.
Harris Teeter directed customers with questions to CRF Frozen Foods, (844) 551-5595.
Harris Teeter adds to the list of grocers affected by the recalls, a group that includes Costco and Trader Joe’s.
Also part of the nationwide listeria-related recall, Florida-based Publix this week also issued a voluntary recall of a wheatberry salad available in plastic containers in its delis.
It was available in available in Publix supermarkets in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.
No illnesses were reported, and the salad is no longer available in stores.
Staff Writer Katherine Peralta contributed.