Lymeez tick gaiters are treated with permethrin, a chemical that is the most effective tick repellent known.
According to the company's website, when ticks climb onto the treated gaiters, they fall off and/or die a short time later.
(Lymeez Co. photo)
outdoors
Grand Forks,North Dakota 58203 http://www.grandforksherald.com/sites/default/files/styles/square_300/public/field/image/050816.O.GFH_.RECTOPPER-Lymeez%20tick%20gaiter.jpg?itok=FDPGthBp Brad Dokken
Grand Forks Herald(701) 780-1123customer supporthttp://www.grandforksherald.com
http://www.grandforksherald.com GET YOUR GEAR ON: Lymeez Tick Gaiter
Grand Forks North Dakota 375 2nd Ave. N. 58203
Tick season is in full swing, and if you're anything like me, just the thought of the blood-sucking parasites is enough to make the skin crawl.
Deer ticks, which carry Lyme disease and are becoming more prevalent in our part of the world, scare me the most because they're so tiny—barely larger than the head of a pin in some cases.
The more common wood ticks are larger, but they still can be problematic when they become attached.
I react horribly to tick bites, which leave a welt that itches and burns sometimes for two weeks or more.
In an effort to keep ticks at bay, I've started wearing light-colored clothes when traipsing through the woods, even going so far as to pull my socks over my pants cuffs.
The look might be a bit on the nerdy side, but it's better than getting bit by a tick.
A couple of weekends ago, I spent a day in the woods of Tamarac National Wildlife Refuge in northwest Minnesota with Donna Dustin and Kyle Kessler watching them capture and band woodcocks.
Banding woodcock requires traipsing through the woods in the heart of tick season in an area loaded with the parasites, but Dustin had a solution to the tick problem in the form of the Lymeez Tick Gaiters she wore around her legs.
The gaiters, which attach around the lower leg, are treated with permethrin, a chemical regarded as the most effective tick repellent there is.
When ticks crawl onto the gaiters, they're exposed to the chemical and either fall off or die.
The full-length adult gaiters retail for $29.99, while a shorter lime-green version costs $18.
Brad DokkenBrad Dokken is editor of the Herald's Northland Outdoors section and also works as a copy editor and page designer.
Dokken joined the Herald company in November 1985 as a copy editor for Agweek magazine and joined the Herald staff in 1989.
He worked as a copy editor in the features and news departments before becoming outdoors editor in 1998.
He also writes a blog called Compass Points .
A Roseau, Minn., native, Dokken is a graduate of Bemidji State University.
+1-701-780-1148
(701) 780-1148