 
Fishermen’s protest turns violent in city, 2 cops injured
‘Traffic signal acutely needed at Colva circle’
Mushtifund rejoices HSSC victory before national battle
Goa Board to provide scanned copies of answer sheets
Sanika emerged among the topper scorers with 95.50%
Fishermen's agitation turns violent in Goa
Students can get copy of corrected answersheets for the first time
Ferry stuck at River Mandovi
Goa Board's Class XII results declared
Making it Big: Book Launch Raman Raghav 2.0: Trailer Celebs attend store launch JDIFT: Fashion Show Kal Penn’s reception AC/DC’s concert
Making it Big: Book Launch Raman Raghav 2.0: Trailer Celebs attend store launch JDIFT: Fashion Show Kal Penn’s reception AC/DC’s concert
Caught on tape: Ferris wheel accident in Tamil Nadu Perform 'yagya' for respite from drought: BJP MP Virendra Singh Delhi: 900 students fail, parents vandalise school property Army put on high alert in Ladakh West Bengal: ITI student lynched to death on suspicion of stealing a buffalo Defying all odds, Maharashtra auto-driver's son cracks UPSC exam in first attempt
After the Narendra Modi government convinced the United Nations General Assembly to adopt World Yoga Day, the ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (Ayush) is now all set to sign a pact with the World Health Organization (WHO) to spread the significance of
TNN | May 13, 2016, 01.03 AM IST
Panaji: After the Narendra Modi government convinced the United Nations General Assembly to adopt World Yoga Day, the ministry of Ayurveda , Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (Ayush) is now all set to sign a pact with the World Health Organization (WHO) to spread the significance of Ayurveda and Ayush and will work with the global organization to celebrate a World Ayurveda Day.
"The information related to Ayurveda and Ayush should spread out to the whole country, as well as the world.
Hence, the Ayush ministry will sign an agreement with the who in the days to come," Union minister of state for Ayush Shripad Naik said, adding that preparations for the second World Yoga Day have already begun.
Preparations at the ministry of Ayush for celebrating World Yoga Day for the second year began over two months ago, the ministry said.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his United Nations address in September 2014 suggested that the world celebrate World Yoga Day on June 21, as it is the longest day of the year in the Northern Hemisphere and shares special significance in many parts of the world.
Naik was speaking at the Sandu Ayurveda Gaurav and Sandu Ayurveda Bhushan award ceremony in Mumbai.
He said that India should be free from diseases and that promoting Ayurveda was the first step towards a disease-free India.
"The future of Ayurveda is bright in the days ahead but, it is needed to promote and spread Ayurveda.
It is important to work with dedication.
Last month, a team of American doctors was in India for a discussion on cancer.
I am extremely pleased to state that India and the United States will sign an agreement in the next two months to carry out a research on cancer.
This agreement will take place in the US in the presence of the honorable prime minister," Naik said.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia