Related Videos Meizu m3 note First Look How To Set Up Chromecast Audio In 8 Simple Steps Why Alia Bhatt Was Comfortable Abusing In Udta Punjab ?
Shashank Manohar Resigns As BCCI President With Eye On ICC Post
By: Express News Service | Mumbai |
Published:May 11, 2016 1:24 am
Photo for representational purposeAt least four persons received a fresh lease of life through organ transplants in the city on Tuesday, after families of two patients agreed to donate their organs following their brain stem death.
Mumbai has recorded 21 donors since January.
The families were willing to donate organs for other patients after their brain stem death.
In a condition where a person dies due to brain stem death, the brain stops functioning, the other vital organs continue to work until life support system is removed.
Among those who underwent the organ transplant on Tuesday is a 16-year-old girl from Gujarat who was wait-listed for an urgent heart donation in Mumbai and was in the city for a month.
On Tuesday, a team of doctors went to Pune’s Ruby Hall Clinic Hospital where a 46-year-old woman had passed away due to head injury in a road accident.
The medical team retrieved her heart and flew to Mumbai via a green corridor created specially by air and road traffic authorities to facilitate speedy transport.
The heart reached Mulund’s Fortis Hospital in one hour nine minutes at 12.07 am on Tuesday through a chartered flight followed by a surgery over eight hours.
Another family of a 31-year-old man in Mumbai agreed to donate both his kidneys and liver after he succumbed to intracranial bleeding at Hinduja hospital.
On Tuesday, one kidney was donated to Jaslok hospital where a 30-year-old man underwent the transplant while his second kidney was donated to a 26-year-old man at Hinduja hospital.
The liver was transplanted into a 58-year-old man at Global Hospital.
According to Zonal Transplant Coordination Center (ZTCC) that facilitates cadaver organ donation, so far, records show 11 heart transplants, 21 liver transplants and 37 kidney transplants this year.
Compared to 2015, the ZTCC recorded higher transplants, owing to increased awareness, in the same period this year.