The much-awaited Honda BRV compact SUV is all set to be launched in the Indian car market today.
Though official bookings for the SUV are yet to announce, but dealers have already started taking pre-orders for the seven-seater BRV at a token amount of INR 21,000.
It is based on the versatile Brio platform; however, the platform has been extended for the BRV and its sibling MPV- Mobilio.
The SUV is expected to be priced in the range of INR 8 lakh to INR 12 lakh, which will make it cheaper than its competition.
It will rival against the likes of the Hyundai Creta, Renault Duster and the Maruti Suzuki S-Cross.
We will be at the launch event to bring you latest updates on the BRV SUV.
12:48 PM: The new Honda BRV is priced in the range of INR 8.75 lakh for the base variant and INR 12.90 lakh for the top-end model, ex-showroom Delhi.
12:45 PM: The multi-information display in the BRV allows the driver to monitor all impportant trip and information including Driving Range, Instantaneous and Average fuel economy, Ambient Temperature and time.
It also has an eco lamp that provides feedback to the driver during fuel-efficient driving.
12:43 PM: The vehicle comes equipped with dual airbags and ABS (Anti-Lock Braking System) as standard safety feature.
However, the entry level petrol variant only gets dual airbags as standard safety feature.
The top-end variant also gets Vehicle Stability control and hill start assist.
12:42 PM: Host of accessories package for the Honda BRV.
The company claims that customers will have around 30 accessories package to customise the compact SUV.
Both interior and exterior customization option on offer.
12:41 PM: The compact SUV is equipped with several bells and whistles including start/stop button, steering mounted controls, roof mounted AC vents, automatic climate control, Bluetooth connectivity, height adjustable driver's seat.
12:40 PM: The BRV gets first in segment paddle shifters in CVT automaytic, Engine push start stop with smart entry system and Automatic climate control, It also gets an advanced Integrated Bluetooth Audio with TFT.
12:39 PM: The Hondra BRV diesel is claimed to be the most fuel efficient SUV in its league.
The vehicle returns an impressive 21.9kmpl of mileage.
While the manual version of the BRV delivers 15.4kmpl of mileage, the CVT unit delivers 16.4kmpl.
Note- Mileage figures are ARAI certified.
12:38 PM: Transmission duties are carried out by a six-speed manual and a new CVT automatic unit.
The CVT automatic unit is specifically for the petrol model.
It is the same unit available in City sedan; instead of five steps, the new transmission is a seven-steps unit that makes it perfect for city driving.
12:37 PM: The engine options include- 1.5-litre i-VTEC petrol and 1.5-litre i-DTEC diesel.
While the petrol engine is capable of producing 118bhp of power along with 145Nm of torque, the oil burner is good for 99bhp of power and 200Nm of torque.
In our review, we found that Honda has improved the NVH levels by adding more sound deadening material.
12:36 PM: The color options include Carnelian Red Pearl, Taffeta White, Alabaster Silver Metallic, Urban Titanium Metallic, White Orchid Pearl and Golden Brown Metallic.
12:34 PM: The vehicle gets new sporty 3D speedometer with multi information display.
It is available in six exterior shades out of which three are metallic.
The cabin is based on the Man Maximum Machine Minimum Philosophy.
12:33 PM: The flared wheel arches of the Honda BR-V have been fitted to newly designed multi-spoke 16-inch alloy wheels.
The tail lamps adopts wide appearance design feature and there is LED elements to give it a sporty look.
12:32 PM: Jnaneswar Sen, Senior Vice President Marketing and Sales, Honda Cars India is on stage, he is explaining the exterior and interior styling of the highly awaited Honda BRV SUV.
12:30 PM: The vehicle exterior design philosophy is based on Active Solid Motion, while the interior design concept is premium and active philosophy.
Which is equipped with high quality material, comfort, stylish instrument panel and cool decoration mesh design.
12:27 PM: Junichi Teraoka, Project leader, Honda R&D Asia Pacific Co, Ltd is on stage.
He is giving a brief presentation on the new Honda BR-V. Indian User Survey- Together, Sporty design, Youthful and premium design and feel.
12:25 PM: The company has receieved an excellent response for new Honda AMaze; Honda aims to increase its dealership to 340 units from the current 295.
JD Power ranking, the Brio and the City sedan has ranked number 1 in customer satisfaction.
12:24 PM: The SUV segment grew by 35 per cent, which is highest in the country.
In fact the entry SUV segment grew by 43 per cent, which is also the best in the country.
With BRV, the company is all set to enter into the growing SUV segment- Company Official.
12:21 PM: The BRV compact SUV comes in two engine options- 1.5-litre i-VTEC petrol and 1.5-litre i-DTEC diesel.
This is the same engine lineup that also powers the City and the Jazz hatchback.
12:04 PM: The launch event for the Honda BRV compact SUV has finally been started.
We are here at the event to bring you all the happenings.
Keep refreshing the page to see live tweets.
11:59 AM: The front track is around 25mm wider than the Mobilio's that gives it a more imposing profile.
The vehicle also gets column mounted power steering instead of pinion mounted in its sibling, and it comes with self-correcting feature.
11:43 AM: As a reminder- The BRV's wheelbase is around 10mm longer than the Mobilio, resulting into spacious cabin.
In fact, the third row seats offers decent legroom and headroom space to accommodate an average Indian.
11:38 AM: The launch event for the Honda BRV is scheduled to commence at 12 PM: We are here at the event to bring you live updates.
Stay tuned to Oncars.in and keep refreshing the page to see live comments.
Cheers!!
!
10:34 AM: The vehicle features a large chrome slat grille, large bumper, black projector headlamps and plastic body cladding on the wheel arches.
The side panels seems directly sourced from the MPV sibling- Mobilio.
10:07 AM: The new Honda BRV compact SUV will be manufactured at the company's Tapukara, Rajasthan based production unit, which also developed the new City sedan.
According to reports, the company plans to produce around 36,000 units of the vehicle annually.
10:04 AM: The BRV is also the first 7-seater SUV in its category, as its direct competitors including Hyundai Creta and Renault Duster comes as a five-seater.
In our review, we found the third row offers sufficient space to accommodate an average height Indian.
9:54 AM: The new BRV compact SUV is built on Honda's 'Activ Solid Motion' design philosophy, which will be seen on the company's future models.
It is based on the extended Brio platform that also underpins the Mobilio MPV.
The BRV is also the third product from the Japanese automaker designed and developed by R&D Asia Pacific Co.Ltd (HRAP) in Thailand.