Looking for a summer internship? Just pick up your smartphone and download these helpful apps
Smartphones have made life a lot easier for most of us; what with the plethora of apps.
From self-learning to booking tickets, it’s all possible at the click of a button.
And if you are sitting at home this summer, wondering where you could find an internship for yourself or learn a course, there’s always an app to the rescue.
Here, we list four apps that can help.
The app helps students gain access to exclusive internships, offers, events and contests.
According to Armaan Vananchal, co-founder, “We are on a mission to make India student-friendly.
We want students to get the most out of their college life.” Incidentally, this platform works on a verified student community, where users upload their college IDs and create a digital Frapp ID.
Work X, a newly launched section of this app, allows students to find internships and short-term work opportunities at their favourite companies and start-ups.
Started as a blog in 2010, Internshala is free to use, and allows users to browse through internships without having to log in or register.
Students can also build and download an online resume in this app.
Sarvesh Agrawal, the co-founder, says, “We are transforming the lives of millions of college students, one meaningful internship at a time.
Internships, if managed well, can make a positive difference to the student, employer, and to the society at large.
Hence, the ad-hoc culture surrounding internships in India should change.”
Available on Android and IOS
With edX in hand, one can learn on the go, by streaming videos to watch offline at your convenience.
This is the only non-profit open source app which provides massive open online courses (MOOC).
In Open edX, one can build learning tools and contribute new features, creating innovative solutions to benefit students everywhere.
They also list internships in the areas of computer science, languages, engineering, psychology, writing, electronics, biology and marketing.
Available on Android and IOS
Subjects from Python programming and data science to photography and music attracts students to Coursera, an app where the courses are modelled on interactive textbooks, readymade videos, quizzes and projects.
The app has been recognised by many top-notch colleges by providing add-on credits to students in their degree certificate.
They also provide Verified Certificates if you sign up for a course.
Esteban Kozak, director of product management at Coursera, says, “The speciality of our app is that it has all of the features that exist on our website, thereby enabling access to the best courses in the world from one’s cell phone.”
Available on Android and IOS
Please Wait while comments are loading...
1.
Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.
2.
Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.
Please write complete sentences.
Do not type comments in all capital letters,
or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.
(example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').
4.
We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.
Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.