Clocking less than 3 per cent of the market at present, yet FinTech has rattled a lot of banking institutions world over.
Little else can explain Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan telling his shareholders: "They (FinTech) all want to eat our lunch.
Every single one of them is going to try."
While a lot of FinTech startups are collaborating with banks, Dimon is right because a significant section does intend to compete with banks and makes no bones about it either.
No wonder then that the 2015 FinTech global report by PwC predicts that 28 per cent of 'Banking and Payments' part of the Finance business will be at risk to FinTechs by 2020.What's kept the Indian bankers awake at night is the not-so-sudden mushrooming of payment wallets.
From just one to 'one too many' to 'payment bank licence holders' - this set of FinTech players has come a long way in a short span of time.
Their survival depends primarily on banks (how else would users load their digital wallets), but they eat into banks' online transactions volume at the same time.
Yet most banks we spoke to seemed either not too affected in denial.
Here's what they had to say about the volley of wallets:
-Connectivity but no connection: Wal lets have made banks sit up and take note of their tech prowess.
"They have shifted our thought process into the user interface, user interaction (UI, UX) aspect of transactions," says Ritesh Pai, senior president and country head - digital banking at Yes Bank.
But of their 120 million wallet users, they would have met less than 10 per cent of the users face-to-face, he contests.
"We have a deeper connection with our customers ," adds Abonty Banerjee, senior general manager and head - digital channels at ICICI Bank.
-Large transaction volume but little monetary value: The daily transactions a wallet registers may beat those of banks by a mile but each transaction is of a relatively small amount, notes Rajiv Anand, group executive and head of retail banking at Axis Bank.
The average ticket size for most wallets ranges from Rs 6 to Rs 7, adds Pai of Yes Bank.
-Fast but not secure: Every other bank claims that while wallets may have reduced the transaction steps considerably, banks promise security of the level wallets can't afford to - for it would mean adding extra layers to their interface which will defeat the whole purpose of making transactions more convenient.
There's a counter to banks' claim though.
Says AP Hota, MD & CEO, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI): "Payment wallets are secure enough.
In fact, they have improved over a period of time.
Only that they don't follow RBI regulations and are self-governed at this point.
But the users are also largely prudent.
They know if something happens, it is only to the extent of the money in the wallet at a given time."
So, convenience and experience trump security, he feels, at least when the amount of transaction isn't huge to the point of being worrisome.
-Riding on the back of cashbacks (Only): Walletwallahs readily admit that giving cashbacks was their way to a user's wallet initially.
It made them user's perfect pick — lighter regulations, better tech experience, and neverending discounts and promo codes.
But how long can they sustain if they keep offering discounts, wonders NPCI's Hota.
"What if Jack Ma (founder and chairman of internet conglomerate Alibaba Group) pulls the plug on these guys and stops giving them money," quips Pai of Yes Bank.
For banks, on the other hand, payments forms a small (but growing) part of the revenue that comes from a gamut of services.
-Tiny but irksome?
Start your own wallet fest: All that said, we couldn't help but notice that payment wallets were bothering traditional banks.
It became evident when State Bank of India (India's largest banking company) removed SBI netbanking option from all third-party wallets like Paytm, Oxigen, MobiKwik; and announced its own wallet - Buddy.
While others didn't go to the extent of banning these fledglings, a slew of them announced their own wallets shortly after.
ICICI called it 'Pockets,' HDFC named it 'PayZapp,' Axis Bank chose to go with 'Lime,' and IDBI Bank with 'PayApt.'
Yes Bank launched its own two months ago and boasts of 15,000 downloads without even heavily promoting it.
And just when they were wondering how to beat them wallets on the tech front, NPCI announced the launch of UPI — Unified Payments Interface — which promises to provide banks similar UIUX interface as that of payment wallets.
Several banks are planning to launch their UPI-enabled apps by next month, we hear.
-Bank wallet vs third party wallet: Wallets like Paytm have got RBI licence to become Payment Banks.
Banks have got their own wallets and will soon have better tech to strengthen them as well.
Once there's a levelplaying field, essentially it'll come down to who can provide the best use cases to users, says Vivek Belgavi, partner, financial Services — FinTech and Technology Consulting Leader at PwC.
The advantage for startups in that scenario would be that payments will remain their core business as opposed to banks who boast of offering a gamut of other services.
There won't be a bloodbath all along, for some banks are inclined towards collaborating with wallets despite having their own wallets.
"Users can go to our wallet for large transactions since we bring in the trust and credibility.
They can opt for third-party wallets for small ticket transactions like they do right now," says SKV Srinivasan, ED — Retail Banking Group, Priority Sector Group and Financial Inclusion.
Banks have the legacy and network, all they have to do is boost their last mile connectivity.
And they can do that with a little help from their walletwallah friends, says Rajashekara V Maiya, AVP & Head of Infosys Finacle (banking solutions unit).
Given that both the players are ultimately fighting the same enemy — a banking environment with 99% cash transactions — it would be best if the two parties work with each other instead of working against each other.
As ICICI's Banerjee concludes: It will be great for the entire banking ecosystem.
Email