THE forecasts are clear: by 2050 the number of people aged over 80 will have doubled in OECD countries, and their share of the population will rise from 3.9% to 9.1%.
Around half will probably need help with daily tasks—particularly those with enduring chronic illnesses such as Alzheimer’s, heart disease and osteoporosis.
Health systems designed only to offer hospital care for acute cases will struggle to provide such support.
To maintain the well-being of wrinkly populations, hospital stays can be replaced by residencies in purpose-built facilities at less cost.
A forthcoming report covering 20 countries from KPMG, a consultancy, suggests the number of care-home residents could grow by 68% over the next 15 years.
How care is managed in any one country reflects a tussle between cultural attitudes, national budgets and gritty demographic realities.
The increasing availability of technology that would allow the elderly to stay in their homes for longer will also affect demand for such options.
Residential care in America and Japan is flourishing.
But in an era of tight public finances, some governments are trimming the payments they offer to cover, or subsidise, care-home places.
Some operators now struggle to make money; in western Europe, for example, governments are encouraging the elderly to stay in their own houses for longer.
This is why the length of stays in care homes has declined from an average of three to four years a decade ago to 12 to 18 months today, says Max Hotopf, the boss of Healthcare Business International, a publishing company.
Thousands of residential beds in the Netherlands and Sweden have disappeared as a result.
About 5,000 debt-laden British care homes—a quarter of the total—may close within three years.
This makes emerging markets a more attractive prospect, at least for European care firms.
Senior Assist, a Belgian company which manages residential facilities and home help, is now expanding in Chile and Uruguay.
But China is the big prize.
The Chinese will rely heavily on residential care, thanks to the country’s one-child policy and increasing urbanisation: two parents and four grandparents often depend on one child far away.
Families in other developing countries are more hesitant about handing Granny over to strangers, however.
In Brazil, India and richer countries of the Middle East, such as Saudi Arabia, elderly care remains centred around hospitals.
In Brazil taking the old from their neighbourhoods is frowned upon.
In India and the Middle East, families are expected to look after their elderly when they are not in hospital.
Helmut Schuehsler, from TVM Capital Healthcare, a private-equity firm in this sector, says to prevent hospital beds being blocked by oldies, “rehabilitation services” tied to hospitals should be on offer, or at least home care that avoids the need for a hospital in the first place.
Overall, home care is an increasingly attractive market, expected to reach $355 billion by 2020 globally, and growing by 7.8% on average a year, according to Grand View Research.
For one thing, it is cheaper to provide help for the elderly in their own homes (as long as it doesn’t involve overnight care); for another, a growing desire exists to “age in place”.
In India, says Mr Hotopf, many agree that equipping ordinary homes with medical equipment will be the solution for those who can afford it.
But simpler and cheaper additions can help keep oldies healthier at home, too.
The company Sen.se, based in Paris, has a device called Mother that runs a family of “motion cookies”—small sensors.
One will fit comfortably on the side of a pill bottle, for example.
If placed appropriately around a house, they can monitor room temperature, the time that a person has spent in bed, the opening of the fridge door and whether tablets have been taken.
An elderly relative’s data can then be monitored remotely on apps.
Keeping an aged parent in view is also becoming easier.
The robotics company Revolve has a telepresence robot called Kubi that allows spectators far away to pan and turn an iPad—a tool that makes it easier for anyone concerned to see how elderly relatives are coping.
For those in need of human oversight, meanwhile, a range of startup companies hope to make finding and employing a carer far easier.
Apps, including TenderTree and HomeHero, will replace the advertisements once crafted for fusty magazines.
Care firms and other professional outfits can save money themselves through advances in remote monitoring.
In Britain, for example, the Airedale Hospital in the north of England put telemedicine services (a two-way secure video link) into nursing and residential homes for a period, and hospital admissions dropped by more than a third.
This was because nurses were on hand to work out whether incidents in care homes were serious or not.
In February the hospital started a new digital hub to provide these services on a wider basis.
Yet health-care systems have generally been slow to adopt technology this way.
It may now be possible to consult with a doctor via a tablet, but governments have many rules about how medical advice is provided and how related data are handled.
The extent to which new technologies grant the elderly independence will be limited by how willing governments are to integrate them into larger systems.