In a chat with ET Now , S Dilli Raj, President, SKS Micro, says the new name Bharat Financial Inclusion reflects better the core competence and the primary focus.
Edited excerpts ET Now: What has led to this sequential strong growth in the loan book?
S Dilli Raj: As we indicated, we expected a 50-60 per cent rise in AUM driven by strong disbursement but we have ended the year with a 84 per cent growth in AUM which is up from Rs 4171 crores all the way up to rs 7677 crores.
So this profitability is primarily driven by credit growth and we have also seen a lot of efficiency in terms of operating cost reduction and financial cost reduction.
So, those are the factors.
ET Now: Your marginal cost of funding has come down.
Any scope for it to come down further?
Would you be cutting your yields as well?
S Dilli Raj : There are two parts to it.
Marginal cost as you said has come down to 9.2 per cent.
In the last year, we have passed on three reductions adding up to 3.8 per cent and presently we charge 19.75 per cent which is the lowest rate, not just in India, but the entire world .
If you were to benchmark with some of our peers, this rate of 19.75 per cent is something like 3-4 per cent lower than anyone else.
While we see that the marginal cost could further come down, I do not think we need to revisit this interest rate reduction for the next two quarter from our side.
ET Now: What range do you see for your margins in FY17?
S Dilli Raj: We are subjected to this operating spread cap of 10 per cent by the Reserve Bank of India .
Therefore the spread cap will remain at 10 per cent as it cannot go beyond 10 per cent.
In terms of other margin and profitability ratios for the current year, we have a 4.2 ROA and 25 per cent ROE.
We see a marginal improvement in our ROA to 4.5 per cent in the next year.
In terms of guidance for next year, we have guided for a 50 per cent earnings growth, up from Rs 303 crore to Rs 450 crore.
ET Now: What about the provisions that has led to this number in the quarter and how do you expect asset quality to shape up, if not for the whole year then at least for the first couple of quarters?
What is your vision?
S Dilli Raj: It is our conviction and assessment that our credit cost would not go beyond 1 per cent for a quarter or a year primarily because of the strength of the operating model and because of group underwriting.
So especially in the last four or five quarters, when there was monsoon deficit, there were a lot of concerns raised about the asset quality of microfinance portfolio.
This was not only about SKS but as we have demonstrated, this particular segment is insulated from the vagaries of macroeconomy and we see vibrancy coming back into the rural sector with government spending moving up.
We also need to understand that if you look at the income composition of the rural household that has gone through a substantial change, 65 per cent is non-farm today.
So these are the reasons why we think that we will be able to maintain this asset quality.
ET Now: You have also planned to raise capital in FY17.
When can we expect this to take place and what mode of capital raising would you pick up?
S Dilli Raj: Right now are at a capital adequacy of 23 per cent which is substantially more than the mandated 15 per cent, but we have a financial policy, a self imposed financial obligation that all times we would like to maintain a 5 per cent excess over the mandated 15 per cent meaning we would like to see 20 per cent capital adequacy all the time.
So if you go with the guidance we have given, when we say that AUM could grow from Rs 7677 crores to Rs 11000 crores, there would be equity hunger somewhere around the third quarter meaning the capital adequacy could catch 20 per cent and that is equity hunger in our model.
So the need could be there for in third quarter but we have just a resolution in the board, we are going to the shareholders and the window is open for a year from there so at an opportune time we will raise the capital.
ET Now: What is your guidance then on growth over the next one to two years?
How do you see yourself doing better than competition?
What might be the growth strategy there?
S Dilli Raj : Primarily if you look at the AUM we have given a guidance of 44-45 per cent for the next year but in a three-year period, we are extremely confident that we could grow 50 per cent year-on-year.
This is primarily because of two, three factors.
One is 80 per cent of our portfolio is well entrenched in the rural markets and our ticket size is still the lowest in the sector.
So we are somewhere around Rs 17000 odd whereas the sector average is around Rs 25000.
Second thing is right now we have 4.6 million borrowers.
If you recall, even during October 2010 prior to the AP crisis, we had 5.2 million borrowers outside Andhra Pradesh.
So the point I am saying is we still have to get back many more of our old borrowers.
And another point is when the SFB license was announced, we said our credit growth and customer service will get our undivided attention.
So we do not need to focus on other things.
We are just focussing on the business .
These are the reasons why we are confident that we would maintain a 50 per cent year-on-year growth over a period of three years.
ET Now: Did I hear you say you will maintain this growth over a period of the next few years?
S Dilli Raj : Next three to five years should not be an issue.
ET Now: It was just very-very easy to talk about SKS Micro as a stock having gone up x per cent or gone down.
Why this rationale to change the company to Bharat Financial Inclusion?
S Dilli Raj: Everything around us has changed.
The sector and unit also has gone through transformation.
Today we have far more regulatory clarity and the sector has gone through a consolidation and if you just look at SKS, there has been a transformation in the core, especially in terms of delivering credit capability etc.
So if we look at Bharat, that is more reflective of our core competence of rural distribution network, perhaps with the exclusion of the Indian Postal Service and the State Bank of India .
I guess SKS has the third largest rural distribution network.
Therefore the name Bharat and all our 4.6 million borrowers reside in the rural areas.
The term inclusion feels greater than microfinance primarily because we have always looked at rural distribution as our core competence rather than microfinance so we started doing, if you look at facilitation of the cross sale products to our customers, so the new name reflects better of our core competence and the primary focus.