The safety car in the Formula E championship is fitted with Qualcomm Halo wireless charging technology (seen here at the Paris ePrix, 2016).
(Relaxnews - File Photo)
Sun, 8 May 2016-04:27pm , AFP Relax News
Mobile processor maker Qualcomm is showing off its inductive charging technology, called Halo, during the Formula E electric motor racing championship.
This wireless charging solution works by fitting vehicles with a compatible receiver.
Cars can then simply be driven into position over a charging pad measuring around one meter across and just a few centimeters thick.
Charging pads can be portable or fixed permanently in place, depending on requirements.
Once parked over the charging pad, the driver launches the charge cycle via an accompanying mobile application.
As well as monitoring the process, the app helps guide drivers into position when aligning the vehicle over the charging pad, ensuring optimal results.
Unlike most inductive charging technologies, Halo allows for energy transfer through a relatively large volume of air.
Charge times obviously depend on the size and type of battery fitted in specific vehicles.
Note that the system has a safety cut-out function that instantly shuts down charging when any kind of presence is detected between the two pads (child, animal, etc.
).
Halo can be configured to meet various different electrical, communications or operating standards currently used around the world.
Charging hardware is made by Chargemaster, a company that specializes in making infrastructure for electric vehicles.
The firm can produce up to 2,000 new charging units per month, each of which fits neatly into a large equipment case.
The firm's latest-generation charging pads offer 7.2 kWh wireless charging.
Bolstered by this Formula E partnership and by agreements with various vehicle makers (including Daimler and Rolls-Royce), Qualcomm Halo technology could be set to equip many consumer electric vehicles in the coming years, first of all as a premium feature.
Ultimately, Qualcomm's aim is to roll out Halo technology more widely among consumers and professionals using electric vehicles.
Taxis, for example, could recharge automatically when returning to a rank.
TOP