THE duty of large corporations is “not limited to ‘not being evil’”, argues People’s Daily , the bombastic mouthpiece of China’s Communist Party.
The newspaper desires greater social responsibility at China’s internet-search firms.
It apparently wants them actively to “stand up for the company’s ethics”.
The publication’s wrath centres on Baidu, China’s biggest online-search firm, for a scandal involving the ads it carries.
Dodgy postings for questionable medical treatments may have led to a cancer patient’s death—after reportedly he paid $30,000 for the quackery.
The case has prompted Chinese regulators to open an investigation into the company’s advertising practices, news that sent Baidu’s shares tumbling this week.
The mess follows another health furore.
In January, Baidu’s boss admitted that his firm had accepted payments from ostensibly independent health experts moderating its online chat rooms for sick patients.
The newspaper’s admonition also took a sideswipe at Google, whose longstanding motto is “Don’t be evil.” The American search giant noisily pulled out of China in 2010 rather than be subject to official censorship.
Despite this seemingly principled departure, Google actually kept several of its lower-profile businesses going.
It is rumoured that Google Play, its app store for Android smartphones, may arrive in China soon (which would require the firm to kowtow to censors).
The troubles at Baidu and the temptations of Google have the same root cause: China’s soaring online-search market (see chart).
Revenues are forecast roughly to double to 411 billion yuan ($63 billion) by 2018.
Group M, a division of WPP, a big advertising firm, estimates that roughly half of all advertising spending in China will take place online this year, up from just 15% five years ago and higher than the global average of 31%.
Mobile online advertising shot up by 178% year on year in 2015, to 90 billion yuan.
Breakneck growth has come with problems.
Recent reports from the University of Toronto found that browsers developed by Baidu and others used weak or little encryption, collected vast amounts of needless, intrusive personal data and proved highly vulnerable to malware.
(Baidu insists its products are safe, but acknowledges ongoing efforts will “significantly strengthen information security”.)
Other research suggests 15-20% of the roughly 10 billion daily clicks traded in advertising exchanges in China are generated by automated “bots”—not humans.
Evil or not, the party newspaper is right to call for China’s internet firms to do better.