By ET Bureau | 5 May, 2016, 05.05PM IST
In Bengaluru, the agencies whose data may be integrated into this platform are BWSSB, BBMP, BESCOM, BMTC, BMRCL, Bangalore One, BMRDA, BDA, the traffic police etc.
BENGALURU: Flipkart Maps is about to make its debut on MapUnity, a Social Technology Lab by Dr. Ashwin Mahesh.
MapUnity has started TechNagara, a social network for all the chosen cities in the 'Smart Cities' mission and a few other prominent ones.
TechNagara brings together public information about governance, and also facilitates and promotes public engagement in solving the key problems of metropolitan areas.
In a discussion with sources inside Flipkart, it was confirmed that Flipkart Maps, a product possibly driven by the acquisition of a 34% stake in Delhi-based digital mapping MapMyIndia by Flipkart in a Rs 1600 crore deal in December 2015, had indeed tied up with MapUnity.
At the time, Flipkart had said that the deal was expected to give it a competitive edge in terms of supply chain and logistics.
Whether the Maps division will turn into a competitor for the likes of Google remains to be seen
In Bengaluru, the agencies whose data may be integrated into this platform are BWSSB, BBMP, BESCOM, BMTC, BMRCL, Bangalore One, BMRDA, BDA, the traffic police etc.
Dr Mahesh has said that a common platform is needed for governance, public information and B2B solutions in cities.
On Twitter, he had mentioned, "This will be a platform that cross-uses drives innovation, features, value.
In TechNagara, a single platform can be used for transport, energy, security, tourism for each city, 126 cities in all.
The rationale is also that a single tech platform can be used as a smart backbone for many cities.
That keeps costs low, which is especially important for Tier 2 cities."
In 2006, MapUnity also built the first Transport Information System for a major city in India - Bengaluru (www.btis.in) and has since developed platforms for urban management, heritage and history, environment, and safety.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email