The use of hyper-converged infrastructure systems will reach mainstream levels of adoption in datacentres within the next five years, Gartner predicts.
The IT market watcher said it expects the market for hyper-converged appliances to grow by 79% and hit almost $2bn this year.
By 2019, Gartner reckons the hyper-converged market will be worth about $5bn, accounting for 24% of the overall integrated systems sector.
The emergence of hyper-converged systems can be traced back to the release of the first tranche of integrated storage, compute and networking bundles from the likes of VCE about five years ago .
These offerings are essentially seen as a way of fast-tracking the deployment of private cloud environments within datacentres by giving operators everything they need to stand one up in a single, preconfigured box of converged infrastructure.
Over time, such products have evolved to include more software-defined elements and commodity hardware, which is largely how Gartner differentiates between hyper- and converged types of infrastructure.
The use cases for hyper-converged infrastructures have proved limited to date, said Gartner, but this will change as enterprises ramp up their use of software-defined technologies and networks.
Andrew Butler, vice-president and distinguished analyst at Gartner, said the move towards hyper-converged systems supports the view that the integrated systems market is beginning to mature, as enterprises move to upgrade and expand on their early converged infrastructure deployments.
“This evolution presents IT infrastructure and operations leaders with a framework to evolve their implementations and architectures,” he said.
The increased use of hyper-converged infrastructures in the datacentre is likely to pave the way for more enterprises to begin continuous delivery and microservices initiatives between now and 2016 and 2025, Gartner added.
This will be made easier by the fact that the underlying hardware components of these hyper-converged infrastructure stacks will become increasingly automated and commoditised, allowing enterprises to deliver IT-as-a-service (ITaaS) capabilities to their developers and line-of-business employees.
However, Butler cautioned that existing integrated and converged infrastructure deployments could hinder the roll-out of hyper-converged systems in some cases.
“While we fully expect the use cases [for hyper-converged systems] to embrace mission-critical applications in the future, current implementations could still pose constraints on rapid growth toward the end of the decade,” he said.