 
SOME 30,000 crocodiles bask at Izintaba, a farm sprawled across 100 acres near the South African city of Pretoria.
Sold to tanners for bags, belts and watch straps, the best croc skins can fetch more than $600.
The job requires long hours but is not particularly dangerous, says Pit Süssmann, its manager.
He worries more about armed thieves, who sometimes come prowling for cars and equipment.
Business is good for farmers of crocodilians, who will gather this month with conservationists and other boffins at a biennial powwow not far from Mr Süssmann’s farm.
Worldwide exports of croc skins jumped by about 30% to 1.8m in 2013, the last year for which data are readily available (see chart).
That is partly owing to increasing demand, which had fallen during the financial crisis as exotic-skin lovers dumped crocs for cheaper reptiles, such as pythons.
It was probably also boosted by clement weather in America, a big producer, where many farmers rely not on captive breeding but on eggs collected in controlled harvests from the wild.
Over 20 countries export crocodilian skins, according to statistics from the UN Environment Programme.
More than half the global tally is from caimans and alligators farmed in Colombia and the United States.
The skins are largely sold to tanners in Italy and France, and also in Singapore.
The industry has grown apace since the late 1970s, when conservationists began loosening an export ban designed to defend the animals from hunting (the trade is still controlled under CITES, an intergovernmental effort to protect endangered creatures).
Grahame Webb, a biologist, says that many of the 5,000 or so farms are tiny set-ups in Asian villages.
The largest outfits, however, now boast as many as 70,000 crocs.
Some are getting snapped up by big leather-buyers at fashion houses such as Hermès and Louis Vuitton.
Crocodile farming is tricky.
The industry’s novelty means that research into feeds and disease prevention remains limited, at least compared with more ancient forms of husbandry.
Space and attention are crucial, because even the slightest scarring—from scraps with rivals, for example—can greatly reduce the value of skins.
The need to keep hatchlings warm eats up capital, as does the several years it can take a new farm to start producing.
Regulatory costs make it very difficult to earn much cash from exporting cheap incidentals, such as crocodile teeth.
There are other headwinds, too.
A slower economy in Russia has dragged down demand for macho kit such as croc-skin waistcoats, which sell for as much as $80,000, reckons Geoff McClure, an Australian consultant.
Mr Süssmann faces stiff competition in South Africa, where croc-skin exports have tripled in a decade; ambitious businessmen in low-wage countries such as Vietnam and Cambodia are also hoping for a bigger bite.
The greatest challenge is persuading consumers, and some lawmakers, that croc-farming is not a grubby trade.
Last year PETA, an animal-rights charity, said it had found evidence of cruelty at a Texan farm—prompting Jane Birkin, a singer, to ask Hermès to remove her brand temporarily from a bag named in her honour.
The industry’s best argument is that, with a few exceptions, wild crocodile populations have rebounded strongly in the decades since farming was sanctioned.
Mr Webb says that those in Australia’s Northern Territory are now 20 times more numerous than they were at their lowest point.
Don Ashley, a consultant in Louisiana, says the trade encourages landowners to protect precious wetlands.
Environmentalists caution that farming is unlikely to benefit other endangered species, such as tigers and rhinos, and may only create demand for the ineffectual “medicines” made from them.
But the results for crocodiles, at least, are worth smiling about.