Sensex soars 326 points, Nifty reclaims 7,800-mark in early trade Infosys overtakes TCS to become the ‘most valued stock’ HDFC to divest 10 percent stake in insurance arm RBI lowers repo rate by 25 basis points to 6.5% Mallya hikes bank settlement offer to Rs 6,868cr Rupee gains 38 paise against dollar
'Lost biz in March due to strikes' Thyrocare lists at 48.4 per cent EY to probe books of Mallya cos Maruti to bring new petrol engine DLF launches 'Mall of India' RBI proposes on-tap bank licences
Nandini Sen Gupta Isuzu Motors India on Monday announced the opening of bookings for the ISUZU D-MAX V-Cross ‘Adventure Utility Vehicle’ priced at Rs.12.49 lakhs (ex-showroom, Chennai).
| TNN | May 9, 2016, 08.10 PM ISTCHENNAI: Isuzu Motors India on Monday announced the opening of bookings for the ISUZU D-MAX V-Cross 'Adventure Utility Vehicle' priced at Rs.12.49 lakhs (ex-showroom, Chennai).
The deliveries of the vehicle will commence in July.
The V-Cross is manufactured at the recently inaugurated Isuzu Motors India's manufacturing plant at Sri City, Andhra Pradesh.
The V-Cross was showcased for the first time at the Auto Expo 2016 in February this year and is designed to meet the aspirations of India's adventure seekers.
With a combination of rugged off-roading capability and passenger car like comforts, the V-Cross caters to the personal vehicle buyer who seeks adventure, style and utility.
The V-Cross segment of vehicles are very popular in the developed markets abroad, and are commonly used, not only for the off-roading and adventure activity, but also for daily commute and utility purposes.
ISUZU will be the first global manufacturer to offer such a capable product to the Indian market.
"The ISUZU D-MAX V-Cross is a new generation vehicle based on the latest platform that is also available in other developed markets.
ISUZU vehicles based on this platform have proven themselves in the world's toughest off-roading conditions and have also been top performers in the rally raids across the world," said the company in a statement.
The V-Cross is a tough and durable off-roading vehicle, with aggressive styling and a host of safety features.
The vehicle has been tested for 40 lakh kms and comes with a powerful engine mated to a 5 speed manual transmission with a 4WD (shift-on-fly) mode.
The chassis frame is based on iGRIP technology (Isuzu Gravity Response Intelligent Platform) that ensures greater stability even at high speeds and sharp curves.
The V-Cross also has a host of contemporary features that offer customers a premium driving experience.
The exterior of the vehicle sports an aggressive wedge shaped design with perfect proportions of flowing lines and a unique flat-underbody.
"While the V-Cross is the ideal vehicle for the adventure seekers, it is also a very good match for those personal vehicle buyers who want to showcase their individuality in the urban settings and stand out from the current crowd of SUV owners in the market.
The V-Cross can be accessorised with a host of after-market and custom built accessories that make it look truly unique and awe-inspiring," said the statement.The interiors of the V-Cross come with ergonomically designed seats, steering mounted audio controls, and electro-luminescent meters with MID (Multi Information Display).
The V-Cross also has a dedicated large deck that can carry personal gear, luggage and equipment especially for long road-trips, adventure and off-roading activity.
Isuzu Motors has also announced the opening of the bookings for the new-generation ISUZU D-MAX Regular Cab pickup.
This regular cab variant is a goods carrier and is registered as a commercial vehicle.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia
Gold futures fall over 1% global cues
Gold futures fall over 1% global cues
Sensex jumps most in 4 weeks on global rally, soars 460 pts
Gold futures fall over 1% global cues
Max Life Insurance pays 96.23% claims
Ola, Neev Finance help driver-partners' children go to school
RBI sets rupee reference rate at 67 against US dollar
Sensex soars 460 pts, Nifty regains 7,800-mark on global cues
ONGC crude oil output up, natural gas declines further in FY16