EA has narrowed the release window for Titan 2, setting the sci-fi shooter up for a showdown with title contenders from the Battlefield and Call of Duty franchises.
However, EA is insisting that Battlefield 1 and Titanfall 2 won't cannibalize one another.
EA had already revealed that it planned to launch Titanfall 2 during the second half of the company's fiscal year.
But now that window has been narrowed to Q3, which runs from October to December.
The company is anticipating about a seven percent bump in revenue stemming primarily from the sales of Battlefield 1 and Titanfall 2.
But with the two shooters launching in the during the same quarter, EA CEO Andrew Wilson had to respond to investor concern that one game could hurt the other's success.
Wilson noted that FPS (First Person Shooters) made up a "giant category" in the industry, a "$4.5 billion category" to get more specific.
That deep and diverse player base is filled with players looking to "fulfill different gameplay motivations."
As a result, "we feel we actually have a really strong position to deliver the broadest set of gameplay mechanics as it relates to [the] FPS genre across the two titles and feel very confident that we are well-positioned to do very well in that category in the year," said Wilson.
"Certainly you see the reception around Battlefield 1 -- we feel very good about that."
Wilson also expressed satisfaction with the excitement and attention Titanfall 2 has been generating.
If there really is a lot of buzz about Titanfall 2 already, then it may have something to do with the fact that the game will launch on PlayStation 4, as well as Xbox One and PC, instead of being left out as it was with the first Titanfall game.
EA plans to show off more of the game during its June 12 EA Play session, which will take place away from E3.
EA also announced that Mass Effect Andromeda launch "late in the fourth quarter," which runs from January to March.
© 2016 Tech Times, All rights reserved.
Do not reproduce without permission.