Furthering the cause of reducing gender inequality in terms of
representation in the realm of emojis, four employees from Google have
submitted a proposal to the Unicode Consortium to add 13 emoji that
better represent professional women.
The Unicode Consortium is the body
responsible for the creation of new emojis, and the Google team is
pushing for the change to be implemented before the end of the year.
Google
employees Rachel Been, Nicole Bleuel, Agustin Fonts and Mark Davis are
behind this initiative.
Elaborating on the reason for these additional
emojis, the proposal reads, "We believe we can have a larger positive
impact by adding 13 new emoji that depict women across a representative
sample of professions.
We believe this will empower young women (the
heaviest emoji users), and better reflect the pivotal roles women play
in the world."
The emojis proposed are categorized into
professional categories like Business, Healthcare, Education, Scientist,
Technology, Industry, Farming, Food Service, and Music.
Google has
taken into account a slew of jobs like office worker, accountant,
banker, manager, financial adviser, tax preparer, clerk, doctor,
physician, MD, nurse, dentist, anesthesiologist, radiologist, scientist,
chemist, lab technician, software engineer, person coding, working on
laptop, factory worker, metallurgical worker, mechanic, high tech
industry worker, assembly line worker, repair person, plumber, handy
person, farmer, chef, cook, teacher, professor, and even a rockstar.
The
proposal aims to get the same professional emojis for men as well.
The
emojis are also meant to be used as combinations of previously existing
emojis.
For example, man or woman + hospital will become male or female
doctor, and man or woman + tractor will become a male or female farmer.
The
team has created these emojis after much research and deliberating
which jobs involve women.
"To make our final selection, we looked at the
primary, secondary, and tertiary categories that compose global
GDP-Agriculture, Industry and Services-and further broke them down
categorically based on global popularity, growth, and overall
representation.
We additionally added in concepts from popular media
campaigns such as #likeagirl, global influencers, and the ongoing
support to promote women in STEM.
The final determination of the new
emoji set was a combination of these above data categories."
A survey done by Adweek asserts that the heaviest users of emoji are young
women.
The survey states that 92 percent of online users consume
emojis, out of which 78 percent are women.
Furthermore, the report
reveals that users among the age of 25 to 29 are the heaviest users.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.