 
Vu launches 20 to 55-inch PremiumSmart television range in India, prices start from Rs 20,000
Pebble launches smartwatches in India starting at Rs 5999
Android M powered Samsung Galaxy Tab A 10.1 (2016) launched
Huawei takes on Mi Band with Honor Band A1
Samsung launches Smart ACs starting at Rs 30,800
Sony unveils G Master professional camera lenses
Evidson Audio launches Audio Sport W6 earphones at Rs 1,299
Sony’s latest professional projector with 4K HDR launched at Rs 6,63,300
Why every Android user needs to be using “OK Google”
11 things you didn't know you could do on Facebook 6 cheapest Windows 10 laptops in India National Technology Day: 5 'desi innovations to boast about Planning to buy a Wi-Fi router?
8 things to remember 6 new features coming to Xiaomi smartphones 6 latest affordable Samsung Galaxy Android phones
WhatsApp launches desktop apps Apple MacBook Launched in India World's thinnest notebook unveiled Facebook's F8 conference WhatsApp encryption: 8 things to know iPhone SE, iPad Pro launched in India
Airtel on call drops Setback for consumers FB's new initiative NIIT on Q4 projection Zomato's value slashed Cognizant cuts guidance
Robin SinhaThe Samsung Galaxy Surfboard can provide live sea conditions along with wind direction and wave height on the LED display on the board.
The display is powered by a Samsung Galaxy S7, which sits in a dedicated slot inside the surfboard.
| TOI Tech | May 12, 2016, 05.17 PM ISTThe Samsung Galaxy Surfboard can provide live sea conditions along with wind direction and wave height on the ... Read More Tech companies are moving beyond smartphones these days.
We have already seen smart watches, smart clothes, smart toothbrushes and even smart shoes.
Now, Samsung has gone one step further by unveiling a smart surfboard called the Samsung Galaxy Surfboard.
What's more, the product was unveiled by through a YouTube video.
The video illustrates a demo of the Galaxy Surfboard and all the features it includes to help surfers improve their sport.
It looks like a regular surfboard but also has an LED display on the surface.
The display is powered by a Samsung Galaxy S7 , which sits in a dedicated slot inside the surfboard.
The video then shows a surfer reading messages sent by his/her trainer on the Galaxy Surfboard display, which are essentially being received by the smartphone .
In addition, the Galaxy Surfboard can provide live sea conditions along with wind direction and wave height.
It can be used up to 100m from the shore.
Although the SAMSUNG GALAXY SURFBOARD has been shown in its full glory in the video, users won't be able to buy one just yet.
Samsung is not the first to enter the sports arena with its own technology.
Chinese manufacturer Xiaomi has already unveiled smart shoes that keep track of your fitness.
Wilson, a sports brand, has also unveiled a basketball that keeps track of the user's shooting skills.
Same goes for Under Armour, which introduced smart clothes capable of tracking the wearer's health last year.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia