Windows 10 has failed to lift sales of PCs in Europe, which declined in the first quarter by 10% to 19 million units, according to the latest statistics from analyst Gartner.
Isabelle Durand, principal analyst at Gartner, said: “The Europe, Middle East and Asia PC market is expected to decline by 2.6% in 2016, compared with 2015.”
Business sales fell 6% while PC shipments to consumers remained flat, according to Gartner.
The analyst company said it does not anticipate a major shift in business to Windows 10 until 2017.
Gartner predicted Windows evaluations would only take 9 months on average, with large businesses taking a little longer.
But for a business to move to the new operating system (OS) in 18 months of it being released exceeds previous upgrades by a year, and this upgrade should drive new PC sales in the enterprise.
“I think 2016 is a year of transition, and consumers will be waiting for new products such as the integration of Windows 10 and new form factors,” said Durand.
A recent study from Gartner found that consumers and businesses are prepared to buy more up-market ultramobile and two-in-one devices.
“High portability, large screen and computing performance is driving the trend,” said Durand.
Uptake of high-end devices among consumers will help to drive greater adoption of such hardware in business.
For example, Durand said the Microsoft Surface device has had quite a good response in business, while Samsung is now looking to target the business devices market.
According to Gartner’s PC market share results, in the first quarter of 2016, Hewlett Packard performed better in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (Emea) than it did worldwide.
It increased its market share lead despite a shipment decline of 2.5%, while Lenovo lost market share.
Asus, ranked third, was the only supplier in the top five Emea ranking to increase its shipments, growing 3.9% in the first quarter of 2016.
The biggest loser, according to Gartner’s data, was Acer, which declined by more than 26%, while dell fell more than 7% compared with 2015.
Durand said PC makers should be looking at different form factors.
“The PC suppliers need to meet demand with the right product and the right price,” she added.