With carrier billing service, Android users can purchase apps on Google Play without credit cards.
They can opt to add the purchase to their monthly mobile bills.
TOI Tech | May 5, 2016, 11.13 AM ISTNEW DELHI: In an attempt to boost Android app purchases, Google is now introducing carrier billing in India.
With carrier billing service, Android users can purchase apps on Google Play without credit cards.
They can opt to add the purchase to their monthly mobile bills.Idea Cellular will be Google's first partner for this.
This means Idea subscribers can avail of this facility as of now.
Both the companies are holding a joint press conference to announce the same on May 6.
Google Play Store might soon warn you of ads in apps Google has started rolling out a new feature on its Play Store that'll notify users of apps that have ads.
The feature appears next to the ‘In-app purchases’ label, below the install option.
As per media invites, Idea CEO P Lakshminarayana along with Mike Hayes, director, business development, Android & Chrome partnerships at Google and Kunal Soni, head of business development for Google Play, India and Southeast Asia, will address the conference.Going forward Google will soon roll out this payment facility to other service providers as well.
Google removes 13 Android apps from Play store Google has removed 13 malicious apps from the Google Play store.
The company took this step after it was notified by the security researcher that these apps made unauthorized downloads to the Android devices.
The carrier billing feature is expected to work for both prepaid and postpaid subscribers.
Like other VAS packs, Google Play will deduct the purchase amount from the prepaid account balance.
For postpaid subscribers, the amount will be added to the monthly bill.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai's letter to employees Search giant Google has an annual tradition of founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin penning letter to employees on the company's progress and priorities during the year.
Idea was also the first telco to partner with Microsoft for deploying the same payment feature for Windows Phone app in India last year.With low credit card penetration in the country, carrier billing seems essential to boost app purchases.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia