Subscribe The social network is looking to make it a little easier for you to find groups on your own, instead of having to search for them by name (or wait to be invited into one by someone else).
Facebook has groups.
You might not have known that beyond the few cursory groups your friends have invited you to, but you can also find groups related to your various interests to partake in large, group conversations (and content sharing) themed to a particular topic.
In an effort to encourage more people to go out and find groups to participate in, Facebook is testing a new "Discover" feature for a random subset of its users.
If you're one of the lucky ones selected to participate, you'll see the new option within Facebook's Groups section.
(Tap on the More tab, then tap on "Groups," to see if you have it.)
In the Discover tab, you'll be able to pick from 25 different categories with different themes: Professional Networking; Animals & Pets; Buy, Sell, Trade; and Funny (to name a few).
Tap on any of them, and Facebook will give you some suggestions of themed groups you might want to look into joining.
These could be groups that other friends of yours have joined, local groups, group with a ton of members, or whatever other combination of characteristics Facebook uses to highlight some of these top groups.
The main Discover tab also showcases groups that a number of your friends have joined (regardless of what the group actually is).
And if you don't feel like tapping through specific categories to see what's available, Facebook also lists some of the top groups in each category on this tab.
Just scroll up and down to see everything that's available.
Facebook told Mashable that the company plans to roll out the Discover feature to more users soon, so don't fret if you don't have access to it just yet.
It's also a little clunky in its design, but we don't know if Facebook has any plans to refine the feature beyond what it's currently testing.
According to Facebook, the company had one billion users participating in groups as of January.
Though, even then, executives noted that the company could do a better job promoting the feature to its users—hence the new Discover bit.
"As widely used as Groups is, if you think about it through the view of any individual person, I think people have tons of groups in their lives that they don't actually use.
If you think of every team you're involved in -- groups of people at work, social clubs you have -- my bet is that for 9 out of 10 of them you don't have a Facebook group," said Will Cathcart, Facebook vice president of product, in an interview with Bloomberg .
Back to top Previous : Uber, Lyft Dropping Austin (For Now) Following Proposition 1... David Murphy got his first real taste of technology journalism when he arrived at PC Magazine as an intern in 2005.
A three-month stint turned to six months, six months turned to occasional freelance assignments, and he has since rejoined his tech-loving, mostly New York-based friends as one of PCMag.com's news contributors.
His rise to (self-described) fame in the world of tech journalism began during his stint an associate editor at Maximum PC, where his love of cardboard-based PC construction and meetings put him in charge... More »
Uber, Lyft Dropping Austin (For Now) Following Proposition 1 Vote And so begins the great stalemate, though we suspect Austin isn't likely to cave on its requirements... More »
Microsoft's Tool Won't Nag You About Windows 10 Updates After July 29 Once the free upgrade offer runs out, Microsoft will flip off the little notification that bugs you ... More »
blog comments powered by
15 Massive Corporate Social Media FAILS
Hidden Facebook Features Power Users Know
Is Ransomware Coming for You?
How to Remove Malware From Your PC
14 Gadgets to Keep You Moving at Work
Unique Mother's Day Gift Ideas
Inside Cuba's Ad Hoc Internet
12 Things You Can Replace With a $38 Tablet
How Long Until a Robot Takes Your Job?
The Growing Threat of Ransomware