In a chat with ET Now, Sandip Sabharwal, asksandipsabharwal.com, explains how irrespective of results, stocks were moving up today.
Edited excerpts ET Now: What is happening with HDFC?
Is it just a shift towards quality or is there something which is backing the move on HDFC for the last two days?
Sandip Sabharwal: There are two things.
One prior to the results, there were some expectations built up that asset quality is going to deteriorate.
The management went a long way to explain that is not happening.
Second, there was a concern on spreads.
So they clearly explained that their spreads remain between 2.25 and 2.35 and that is how they see it over the next few years also.
That allayed a lot of apprehensions over the stock.
So the stock underperformed significantly and we have seen that comeback happening because they again reiterated that growth outlook remains good.
So it was always a clean stock.
Some apprehensions got built up and that created the correction.
So now we are seeing buying returning.
It is as simple as that.
ET Now: I was just looking at the kind of results that have come out.
You may have looked at some.
The reaction to the V-Guard numbers.
The strong volume growth posted by Castrol or the big surprise by smallcap IT company Nuclear Software.
Sandip Sabharwal: I looked at all the results and the weird part of today's trading is that results are bad, results are good, stocks are still moving up.
We saw disastrous results from...
ET Now: You are referring to Hexaware?
Sandip Sabharwal: Yes exactly.
ET Now: But I think they tried to convey via the call that things could actually be much better in the quarters ahead and maybe that is why maybe the market is probably liking Hexaware .
Sandip Sabharwal: It is difficult to believe.
I think it is the same thing with Zensar.
The results were bad, then they conveyed something.
I think midcap IT companies are going to have a tough time maintaining margins or even retaining margins.
So I think investors have to take a big leap of faith in these stocks going forward.
ET Now: What about Eicher Motors numbers if you have had the chance to look at them they say margin beat yet again but is it already in the price?
Sandip Sabharwal: Eicher Motors is a stock where we always think things are in the price but then the stock remains strong.
So there is a lot of benefit which the investors are willing to give to Eicher Motors management on their overseas strategy.
This is sustaining the stock price because they have been so successful in their domestic strategy.
I have been reiterating that it is some thing we have to watch.
In next one or two years, it is going to be the driver of stock prices and not the domestic performance and if they are successful there then the stock could still go places.
ET Now: I was surprised by Castrol volume growth.
Typically, the last few quarters has either shown a de-growth or a minor uptick on a quarter on quarter basis.
But a 9 per cent volume growth is stuff that fairytales are made of.
Sandip Sabharwal : No and I think this is the feature of all company results.
You see the volume growth across the board in companies is very strong.
The pricing has been cut.
A lot of consumer goods companies have cut prices.
But if you see volume growth, 8-10 per cent is something which I am seeing across the board.
So that again raises the question -- what is our IIP reflecting?
If most companies are reporting an 8-10 per cent volume growth, then the IIP growth of 1 to 3 per cent, whatever gets reported, whether that is the real growth or not or the growth is better.
ET Now: So you made an interesting point, FMCG volume growth, it is a elastic demand but for companies like Castrol and a few others, industrial products it is relatively an inelastic demand and if that is going at a rate of 9% on a quarter on quarter that probably indicates a little bit about the economy too.
Sandip Sabharwal : Yes because see fuel growth, fuel consumption growth this year has been very strong, like petrol and diesel have been growing at above 10%.
I think in some months it was 20% also and so I think Castrol eventually is a derivative of how the transportation sector is doing.
So I think that is what is coming back so that shows maybe more usage of trucks on the road so that the oils get replaced more.
I guess that could one of the reasons and that is also direct reflection on the performance of the economy.
So I think this volume growth story is the story of this result season.
ET Now: V-Guard has done extremely well.
I know you have mentioned that even bad results have gotten rewarded but doubling of profits and the commentary given by the management saying that while they may not be able to maintain such margins, the growth looks to be very good because their diversification is yielding results as well.
Do you look at this company at all?
Sandip Sabharwal: Yes, I have looked at it initially.
I have bought it at Rs 200 odd many years back.
So the company's management is very good and they have made forays into different geographies and different product segments.
When the stock does well, you get into new categories and you make them successful and do not get into them just for the heck of it and for diversification and to show growth.
So they have showed profitable growth and they have got duly rewarded now at Rs 1200 stock trades at 30 times plus current year earnings , taking into account the growth expectations and the margin picture which the management has played out.
There is no reason for older investors to sell but for newer investors, there is not too much value at this stage.
ET Now: What would you do if you had to choose one or two real estate names to invest money.
Sandip Sabharwal: I think real estate again and the leader is DLF.
I believe it is still in value zone.
It has made attempts to move up then it has come down again.
But the debt reduction, the REITS story, the listing of their arm and all those stories are still there intact in DLF and this stock could do well.
Among other companies, south-based companies are facing some stress.
They were the cleaner ones and that is where one could play but the only Mumbai-based stock one could play is Oberoi Realty .
There, we have seen a decent uptick in the recent past but on any correction that stock looks good because with the kind of new launches and new projects they are coming out with next year, FY18 will be a big year for them.
ET Now: Samir Arora the other day sais why would people want to buy a commercial real estate portfolio wherein the yield is not even 2-3 per cent?
Sandip Sabharwal: So people would not buy for 2-3 per cent.
I think the expectation is that the yield will be much higher and that is when people buy.
So the yields on commercial real estate will always be upwards of 7-8 per cent.
ET Now: In India, we do not have 8 per cent yields for commercial property.
Sandip Sabharwal: In residential, no; but in commercial, you could have those kind of yields and that is where it will become attractive.
ET Now: What do you think of all this to and for that is happening?
Sandip Sabharwal : Market rallied 1200-1300 points.
So it has the right to correct by 300-400 points and it is doing that.
The macro data is good.
So I have been reiterating this volume growth and companies are good, numbers are good and markets are looking good.
Global cues also okayish.
So if all markets corrected, directionally things are looking good from here.
ET Now: This is not the first time that these clutch of stocks -- speciality chemicals -- are moving.
How does one pick and choose within this sector?
Sandip Sabharwal : These companies are not exactly speciality chemicals.
Speciality chemical companies are difficult to analyse.
But I think as far as UPL goes, their strategy is working out pretty well.
They are growing very well and even after the kind of run which we have seen over the last three-four years where stocks gone from Rs 100 to Rs 600, the valuation still are at 15 odd times and for return ratios which the company generates of 20 per cent plus and a 20-25 per cent kind of profit growth expectation, the stock still has value and SRF, of course, has been doing well with all its new initiatives.
I think they have had a decent capex cycle and the expectation is that that capex cycle will now generate returns.
So I think that is the story in SRF and the management talk has been pretty positive and valuation wise also the stock is not really expensive despite the kind of run-up it has seen.
ET Now: The Ricoh India saga continues.
The reason I bring it up is because there are so many retail investors who are now, of course, feeling that they are trapped in it.
There is a lot of talk at about Rs 350.
You remember that smart money is getting into it.
There is only as much downside that could come in and the stock has already lost another 75 points from there.
Sandip Sabharwal: Very little for me to add there expect for the fact that, again there is no news flow right.
The management says nothing.
The company says nothing and no one knows what is happening.
No one knows what was the problem in the company.
So I think people should not be buying the stock on lower circuits expecting that there will be a Rs 50-70 bounce back.
I think that is the worst thing to do.
There are enough stocks, enough companies in the small and midcap universe you can buy, why do you want to buy this?