Japanese auto giant Honda is all set to launch the BR-V in India on Thursday.
The all new compact-SUV made its debut at the Delhi Auto Expo 2016 and may ask anything above Rs 8 lakh to get to your home.
BR-V, as in Bold Runabout Vehicle, has interesting bold looks, but as we go along the sides, it is a déjà vu of the first walk-around of Mobilio.
The stance of the BR-V is tall and powerful; the high chrome strap on the grille has a striking resemblance with that of the Vitara Brezza, which was unveiled on the same day as the BR-V.
But this so-called compact SUV looks nothing like compact.
It’s a giant seven-seater.
Based on the platform of the Brio, Amaze, and Mobilio, BR-V feels bigger, taller and bolder than the Mobilio, despite the same side-profile lines that flow towards a taller hind.
Honda calls it their ‘Active Solid Motion’ design philosophy.
O Yes.
there’s a lot of Japanese touch in the flesh from Honda, be it the proven 1.5-litre i-VTEC and i-DTEC engines, multiple safety features as standard, or the stylish rear tailgate.
The car is loaded with features like a start/stop button, steering-mounted controls, automatic climate control, roof mounted AC vents, Bluetooth connectivity and height-adjustable driver’s seat to complement the ease of driving.
O wait!
Where’s the touchscreen?
The dual airbags - standard in all trims - will take care of any jerk.
Antilock Braking System, Vehicle Stability Assist (VSA), Hill Start Assist (HAS), etc., add safety to the car.
Do not disappoint yourself by expecting a cruise-control.
The 1.5-litre i-VTEC engine will send out 117bhp of maximum power and 145Nm of max torque while the 1.5-litre i-DTEC diesel engine will generate 99bhp max power and a top twist of 200Nm.
Honda may also edge up against its rivals, who settle for a five-speed gearbox, by offering options like a 6-speed manual as well as a CVT (Continuously Variable Transmission) gearbox.
Five years back, there was no Ford EcoSport, no Renault Duster, no Hyundai Creta, or not even a distinct compact SUV category.
But today as the segment grows at over 35% compared annually, Honda thought, ‘Why should we stay behind?’
Honda Cars India Ltd will make the SUV at its Tapukara plant in Rajasthan, which is under expansion to up the production from 1.2 lakh to 1.8 lakh units annually.
For Honda, this car has to be the next breadwinner, after the Mobilio and the Jazz facelift saw some success.
But in an existing line-up of Brio, Amaze, City and Mobilio and CR-V, Honda leaves for us a question behind: What segment did they really have in mind to make a seven-seater “compact SUV”?