A dummy unit of what is reportedly the iPhone 7 has leaked and shows a near identical design to that of the iPhone 6s, with the exception of the removal of antenna lines on its rear case and the addition of the iPad Pro's Smart Connector.
In late November and only weeks after the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus went on sale, rumors of what Apple has in store for the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus made headlines.
Sources claimed that Apple was planning to remove the standard 3.5mm headphone port on the next-generation smartphones in order to make them thinner.
Users would be encouraged to listen to audio via the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus' Lightning port, use Bluetooth headphones, or Apple's rumored wireless AirPods , which are expected to make their debut alongside the new iPhones.
While most consumers are probably expecting a completely redesigned iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, since we're coming off an "s" moniker release, reports and leaked schematics appear to cast doubt and claim the new iPhones will retain a design similar to that of the current iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.
While the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will likely look similar to their predecessors, Apple CEO Tim Cook recently revealed that the new iPhones would feature "things you don't know you need today and can't live without."
This has led to some speculation that the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus could follow in the Samsung Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge's footprints by featuring a waterproof body and wireless charging capabilities.
What is reportedly an iPhone 7 dummy unit has leaked and appears to back up recent reports regarding Apple's next flagship iPhones.
As you can see in the image above, the unit looks similar to the iPhone 6s but does not include the much complained about visible antenna lines on its rear.
Another notable feature shown is the iPad Pro's Smart Connector, which is located toward the bottom of the device and it would allow the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus to wirelessly charge with a compatible charger and easily connect to other Smart Connector accessories.
As always, it's best to take reports of upcoming iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus design, specs, and features with a grain of salt.
As always, we'll be sure to keep you posted on any new iPhone 7 news.
© 2016 Tech Times, All rights reserved.
Do not reproduce without permission.