 
[T IS EASY to succumb to the romance of Jamaica over dinner with Chris Blackwell in GoldenEye, his boutique hotel in the grounds of Ian Fleming’s Caribbean retreat.
Mr Blackwell’s mother was Fleming’s mistress, muse and supposedly the model for Pussy Galore.
Mr Blackwell’s record label, Island Records, turned Bob Marley, among many others, into a star.
In 1989 he sold Island for £180m ($300m) and bought eight hotels in Miami Beach, which was then run-down.
Now he is focusing on his Jamaican properties instead.
There are some reasons to think that Mr Blackwell’s nose for the market has not deserted him.
Jamaica has produced a striking number of global superstars (such as Marley and Usain Bolt) and global brands (including Blue Mountain coffee and Jamaican Lion marijuana).
The weather is warm, the beaches idyllic.
A brand new toll road, built by a Chinese company, links the south with the north.
But there is a darker story.
Over the past 30 years Jamaica’s growth rate per person has averaged just 1%.
A third of young people are unemployed.
One of the island’s most famous products, marijuana, is illegal and controlled by criminal gangs.
The murder rate is ten times that of the United States.
On the weekend upon which Schumpeter arrived, the dumped bodies of two American missionaries were discovered.
How can Jamaica’s virtues be encouraged to triumph over its vices?
A surprising answer lies in globalisation.
It has not been kind to the country in the past: Jamaica served as a fulcrum of the slave trade and a haven for pirates.
Yet today four global forces, the IMF, mass tourism, the communications revolution and social entreprise, promise something much better.
Taken separately, none of these would put an end to stagnation; taken together, they just might.
The IMF reform programme is imposing some much-needed discipline.
The government’s record of economic management has been catastrophic.
That 1% growth rate conceals wild swings; the country’s accumulated public debt recently reached 140% of GDP.
Thanks to the IMF’s straitjacket, Jamaica has now reduced its public debt to 126% of GDP and trimmed its public-sector wage bill from 11% of GDP to 10%.
Jamaica can capitalise on this discipline only if the private sector becomes more dynamic.
In the past business life has been dominated by cliques.
But more recently the country’s insular ways have come under assault from two industries that connect Jamaica to the outside world.
The first is tourism.
Gordon “Butch” Stewart is a white Jamaican whose rich local accent attests to his family’s deep Caribbean roots.
The son of a bar owner, he got his start in business importing air-conditioners.
Now he operates from a suite of offices in the back of an electronics shop.
But he is nonetheless a tourism magnate: he owns 19 hotels in the Caribbean, under the Sandals and Beaches brands.
Mr Stewart’s hotels are designed to capitalise on Jamaica’s biggest assets (sun, beaches and cheap labour) despite its biggest problems (violence and aggressive begging) by creating gated communities along the northern coast.
Guests pay a single lump sum, and then forget their wallets.
The biggest hotels have over 500 rooms and more than a dozen restaurants; the poshest provide personal butlers.
Those with sea-legs can stay offshore in the safety and comfort of liners operated by companies such as Carnival Cruises.
The government may not want tourists to be walled off from the rest of Jamaica, but it can hardly expect the industry to adopt a different model if it can’t provide law and order.
The second dynamic industry centres on connectivity.
Fifteen years ago Denis O’Brien, an Irish telecoms entrepreneur who sold his business to BT for $2.8 billion, decided that the Caribbean was ripe for technological innovation: incumbents such as Cable & Wireless were sleepy, service was poor and costs were exorbitant.
His company, Digicel, quickly established itself as a pace-setter in bringing mobile-phone services to the region, having learned how to operate in even tougher markets such as Papua New Guinea.
The firm is rapidly transforming itself from a mobile-phone company into a digital giant, wiring the region with fibre-optic cable, creating its own TV channels and establishing call centres.
Broadband gives Jamaica a chance to take advantage of some of its most important resources—the English language and a time-zone shared with America’s east coast—and to capture its share of the growing market in outsourced knowledge work, such as accounting or legal tasks.
Jamaica is even learning from global models in dealing with its two biggest problems: poverty and crime.
Poor areas such as Trench Town used to be run by government bosses whose job was to bring benefits (notably public housing) in return for votes.
Today social entrepreneurs offer a different model, using methods drawn from global business.
Henley Morgan, a former consultant, has established a social company, the Agency for Inner-City Renewal (AIR), complete with a CEO, a chairman and various business divisions, to try to revive Trench Town.
AIR provides training, acts as a middle man between companies and locals and teaches people how to establish businesses.
It has also formed an alliance with Sagicor, an insurance company, to offer micro-loans.
Trench Town is no longer a war zone: Marley’s old neighbourhood is being dolled up; local recording studios churn out gangsta reggae; a few intrepid tourists venture into the area.
Turning round a country with a history of mismanagement and violence will be painful.
The government needs to resist resorting to its bad old ways.
In particular, abandoning the IMF’s programme just when it is beginning to work would be disastrous.
Betting on globalisation does not guarantee a boost in the growth rate.
Betting against it does guarantee sclerosis.