#Lenovo Z1
Lenovo has announced via its official social media channels that it will be launching its Z1 smartphone in India on May 10.
The smartphone is a project funded by Lenovo and is actually called the ZUK Z1 .
Lenovo however is branding the device as the Lenovo Z1 for the Indian market.
Premium build quality aside, the Lenovo Z1’s highlight is indeed the Cyanogen OS.
The handset will come feature-packed with Cyanogen’s special Android-based software and will also include the various customisations that the software is known for.
The Z1 is expected to run Cyanogen OS 12.1 out of the box, which is based on Android 5.1.1 Lollipop.
The ZUK Z1 features a 5.5 inch Full HD screen, and will be powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 quad-core processor.
It is loaded with 3GB RAM and 64GB storage.
The device also packs in a 13MP SONY IMX214 camera on the rear, and an 8MP front camera.
In addition, the key features of the device as revealed by ZUK include 4G radios, support for Bluetooth, GPS, USB Type-C port, a fingerprint reader and Wi-Fi.
It is powered by a 4100mAh battery.
Lenovo recently made a claim that the Micromax will not be only company to run Cyanogen OS in India.
The Lenovo Z1 is indeed going to be second brand to run the same OS officially.
To recall, Cyanogen, Micromax and Chinese smartphone maker OnePlus went through a rough phase last year, when Cyanogen Inc. suddenly decided to give exclusive rights to Indian smartphone maker Micromax for its Yu-branded smartphones.
This took place when OnePlus had already started selling its smartphones with the Cyanogen OS.
Just before the launch of its Yu smartphones, Micromax took OnePlus to court which led to OnePlus stepping down and building its own Oxygen OS for its handsets in order to keep selling them in the country.
Post the legal tussle , only the OnePlus One smartphone was allowed to get Cyanogen OS updates.
Lenovo says Cyanogen OS is no longer exclusive to Micromax: Report Lenovo Vibe S1 gets Android Marshmallow update in India