Ahead of the May 10 event where Xiaomi is expected to reveal the Mi Max alongside the MIUI 8 ROM, the smartphone appears
to have passed Tenaa, the Chinese telecommunications certification
authority, revealing purported specifications and its design.
As
per the listing of the Mi Max, the smartphone looks very similar to the
Mi Note smartphone that launched last year.
It has no physical button as
rumoured previously.
Instead, the handset features a fingerprint
scanner on the back.
One of the images spotted at Tenaa also suggest the
device to feature an identical rear same as the Redmi Note 3 .
Notably,
the Mi Max images seen on the Tenaa listing are in-line with an earlier leaked image .
As for the specifications, the Mi Max features the 6.44-inch
full-HD (1080x1920 pixels) display, which can be considered as a
highlight of the device.
It packs hexa-core Snapdragon 650 processor and
will come in two variants - 2GB of RAM with 16GB storage and 3GB of RAM
with 32GB storage.
The handset is seen sporting a 16-megapixel rear
camera and a 5-megapixel front camera.
It comes with 4G LTE, Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth, GPS, Glonass, and 3G.
The handset is listed to pack a 4000mAh
battery.
The listing was spotted by a Weibo user and first picked up by Tech Update.
Xiaomi recently confirmed that the Mi Band 2
was delayed by a month .
The company had scheduled Mi Band 2 to be launched on May
10 alongside the Mi Max.
The news was confirmed by Xiaomi CEO Jun Lei
and he gave reasons that manufacturing the Mi Band 2 was difficult and
it would be released a month late.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.
Ketan Pratap covers daily news and rumours at Gadgets 360.
He attended IIMC (Indian Institute of Mass Communication), majoring in English Journalism.
Ketan is a More
There May Not Be Enough Copies of Uncharted 4 for Sale on Release Day
OnePlus 3 to Sport 3500mAh Battery, Snapdragon 820 SoC: Report