Micromax showed off its latest flagships,
the Canvas 6 and Canvas 6 Pro , at a grand event in Gurgaon last month where it also unveiled a new logo and brand identity.
No longer content
to be thought of as a "budget" smartphone manufacturer, the company which has so far made the most
of India's smartphone boom, wants to take on new Chinese competitors
such as Xiaomi and LeEco , which have seriously upped the ante in terms
of features, build quality, and price.
Where other companies have
pushed high-resolution screens, top-flight CPUs, fingerprint sensors and
metal bodies at extremely low prices, Micromax has decided to go with
4GB of RAM as its trump card.
Pretty much all phones under Rs.
10,000
now have 2GB of RAM, and 3GB isn't unheard of under Rs.
15,000.
Let's
see if this one feature is enough to distinguish the Canvas 6 Pro from
its competition, or if Micromax is barking up the wrong tree.
Look and feel The
Canvas 6 Pro might be Micromax's best-looking phone to date.
The cheap
materials and crude feel of many of company's earlier products have given
way to a slick, well-crafted product.
The matte plastic shell that
covers the rear and sides doesn't exactly scream high-end luxury, but
it's offset by the slightly bevelled edges of the black glass front.
Overall construction quality seems quite good, and this is a phone you'd
be happy to be seen with.
The front is pretty stark, thanks to
the use of on-screen buttons.
The only things breaking up the Corning
Gorilla Glass 3 are the earpiece, front camera, and notification LED.
The power and volume buttons are on the right, the Micro-USB port is on
the bottom, and the 3.5mm audio socket is on top.
The back looks
reminiscent of HTC's old Windows Phone 8 models, down to the texture of
the removable shell.
You'll see the slightly raised primary camera and
flash centred at the top, with Micromax's recently redesigned
fist-shaped logo right beneath them and a speaker grille at the bottom.
The
shell pops off to reveal the Canvas 6 Pro's removable battery, and
individual slots for one microSD card, one Nano-SIM, and one Micro-SIM.
You get a charger, cable, headset, adhesive screen protector and
microfibre cloth in the box with the phone.
Specifications and software Micromax
keeps things interesting in the sub-Rs.
15,000 market by equipping its
latest model with a 2GHz MediaTek Helio X10 SoC (also known as the MT6795M) and an eyebrow-raising
4GB of RAM.
There's 16GB of storage which seems a bit
stingy in light of the massive amount of RAM, and microSD support only
goes up to 64GB officially.
The display measures 5.5 inches and
has a resolution of 1080x1920, which is pretty standard at this price
level now.
You get a 13-megapixel rear camera and a 5-megapixel one in
front.
LTE is supported on both SIMs, and
thankfully the microSD card slot is not shared with either.
There's
Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n, Bluetooth 4.1, and USB-OTG.
The removable battery has a
capacity of 3000mAh.
Unlike many other smartphones at this price
level, there's no fingerprint sensor, quick charging, Infrared, NFC or any such
modern value-added feature.
Micromax seems to have gone with 4GB of RAM as the
Canvas 6 Pro's sole calling card, and it makes the spec sheet feel a bit lopsided.
There's
quite a lot happening on the software side though.
The Canvas 6 Pro runs
Android 5.1 with a custom skin that looks a lot like stock Android.
The
icons are all different but don't look bad.
Swiftkey comes pre-installed
and set as the default keyboard.
You also get over 20 other
pre-installed apps including the usual suspects Clean Master, CM
Security, CM Locker, multiple shopping apps and browsers, and a few
trial games.
All can be uninstalled other than Micromax's own App
Center, M!Live, and M!Account.
Some of the apps are more
interesting.
VuLiv is a multi-format media player for local files and
streaming content, which requires you to sign in with a
Facebook or Google account.
Udio Wallet lets you transfer money and pay
bills, and Scandid is a shopping app that lets you compare prices and
search coupons for various websites.
Most notable though is
Micromax's Around feature, first seen on the Yu Yutopia ( Review | Pictures ) which isn't an app but is built into the
launcher.
Swipe to the left from the first homescreen and you'll see the
Around screen.
There's a row of category icons and a search bar on top,
with Google Now-style cards below.
As the name suggests, you'll see
information about things around you, such as sports match scores,
restaurants, cabs, hotels, and shopping offers.
You can search for
things you want, but the feature seems a bit unfocused - things like
Flipkart shopping results really don't have anything to do with your
location.
About gets its information from a handful of apps, most
notably Scandid, Ixigo, and Zomato.
That means the information you see may not necessarily the best or most relevant, but this feature could
come in handy especially when travelling.
Performance Unlike
some other Micromax phones, the software isn't too intrusive and the
hardware seems to have enough grunt for most tasks.
This isn't by far
the most powerful hardware around, but even mid-range phones today are
extremely capable by any standard.
It's hard to quantify whether having
4GB of RAM makes a huge difference, but for what it's worth, we didn't
feel any lag when using the phone and switching around between loads of
open apps.
The screen is bright and crisp, but the glass is
extremely reflective, which can be a little annoying in some situations.
Colours pop quite nicely, and brightness is adequate for outdoor use.
Using the Micromax Canvas 6 Pro turned out to be quite pleasant, except
that we did feel the rear heat up quite a bit when gaming and using the
camera.
Benchmark performance was good, if not exactly
flagship-killer material.
We managed 34,731 points overall in Quadrant
and 46,385 in AnTuTu.
Graphics scores came in well too, with 23fps in
GFXBench and 9,407 in 3DMark Ice Storm Extreme.
The battery lasted only 6
hours, 41 minutes in our video loop test which is disappointing by
today's standards.
We managed to last through a day on a single charge
but only if we stuck to basic usage - you're likely to be reaching for
your charger by late evening if you typically play games, browse the Web
a lot, or record a lot of video.
The cameras were quite
disappointing.
Even in bright sunlight, details were simply lost and
photos came out looking grainy and subdued.
Everything looked
artificial, and in some cases the focus was so badly off that photos
were practically unusable.
Night shots were often blurry and depended
heavily on the amount of available light, though even then some areas
could be well lit while the rest of the frame was a dark blob.
The front
camera is okay for photos taken at very close range, but that's about
it.
Video was also mediocre.
Verdict Micromax has a new
brand identity and the Canvas 6 Pro is the first of a slew of new
launches which it hopes will solidify its position in the Indian
smartphone market, which is remarkably different from what it was when
the company first started out.
Clearly, a lot more attention is being
paid to aesthetics and the overall quality of materials and construction
than ever before.
Micromax is even thinking about the user experience,
finding ways to make money off apps without shoving tons of ads down
users' thoats.
Unfortunately, that's about all this phone has to offer.
Performance
is good, but not great, and that too it comes at the cost of battery
life and heat.
The poor camera performance is a massive letdown, and
overall Micromax seems to have focused far too much on being able to
shove 4GB of RAM into a midrange phone.
Sure, this will appeal to buyers
in the same "more must be better" way that octa-core CPUs were a big
deal last year and CPU speed was before that.
Personally, we wouldn't
have minded trading up to half of that RAM for better battery life and
finesse.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.