The best
1 of 1View AllView As Slideshow
Intro Windows Microsoft Miscellaneous
A lot can happen in a week.
Seven days might not seem like much, but it can be an eternity in the tech news cycle.
Between Windows news, hardware and software developments and Microsoft's fast-paced movements throughout the technology landscape, it's never easy to keep your hand on the pulse of technology.
Not to mention everything that's going on right here at Windows Central!
Every week we're going to compile the biggest stories into one post, so you never fall behind – In Case You Missed It (ICYMI).
Microsoft has published some of their Classic Windows Apps in the Store.
The apps, such as WordPad and XPS Viewer, were converted for Windows 10 using the company's Project Centennial tool .
Though they can be found in the Store, they are not yet available for download.
Pinterest's Pin It Button, AdBlock, Adblock Plus , and others are all available for some Insiders to download, though only some of them can be installed.
Full support for Edge extensions is expected to arrive for all Windows 10 users as part of the upcoming Anniversary Update .
Despite, or perhaps because of, the gains made by Windows 10, Microsoft finally lost the honor of being the creator of the most popular web browser.
Google Chrome has finally overtaken Internet Explorer as the most-used browser in the world.
"Solair shares our ambition for helping customers harness their untapped data and create new intelligence with IoT, and this acquisition supports our strategy to deliver the most complete IoT offering for enterprises.
We're excited about their technology and talent – and delighted to welcome them to the Microsoft team."
Millions of Microsoft accounts may be part of an immense email data breach that a Russian hacker is claiming to have pulled off.
The haul of information consists mostly of Mail.ru accounts, but also includes credentials from Yahoo, Microsoft, Google, and some other smaller companies from around the globe.
"This means our viewers will be able to enjoy live sports, news and events all in real-time without a traditional cable or satellite subscription," said Hopkins.
"We're going to fuse the best of linear television and on-demand in a deeply personalized experience optimized for the contemporary, always-connected television fan."
Share your thoughts on this past week of news!
And we'll be back again next week to do it all over again.
Turn to the left 3 hours ago 10 By Richard Devine Shake and bake baby.
A leak posted on the Xbox One Subreddit shows that Microsoft has a NASCAR styled expansion pack for Forza Motorsport 6 in the pipeline.
Xbox One Twitch streaming event 7 hours ago 14 By Paul Acevedo Tonight at 9pm Eastern (8pm Central, 6pm Pacific, 1am GMT), we'll be playing free-to-play MMO Neverwinter.
To celebrate the release of the new Maze Engine expansion on Xbox One, we'll check out the new campaign and give out 30 premium mount codes!
Read on for quick impressions and contest details.
Good deal 8 hours ago 15 By Joseph Keller Microsoft's Lumia 550 is now on sale at Vodafone for £39 in a new pay as you go deal.
Sleeping with the fishes 9 hours ago 4 By Lauren Relph We reviewed Paranautical Activity on the Xbox One.
We've fought with giant cannons and killed giant flying pixellated eyes.
We're now deaf from dubstep soundtracks but we can't stop playing...