Home Photos technology Happy Mother’s Day: How you can make it special with Google, Yahoo, Timex and more
Updated on May 8, 2016 12:42 pm
Its Mother's Day today and Google has a special Doodle for the ocassion.
The Mother's Day doodle shows two pair of shoes lying on a doormat, with Google written on the bottom.
One pair of shoes is bigger, followed by a smaller set, indicating that one belongs to a mother and the second to a child.
"As we get older, we forget how heavily we once relied on our mothers, and mother-figures.
Today's doodle for Mother's Day harkens back to a time in my youth when following Mom around was all I knew, " says Google's Sophie Diao explaining the doodle in a blogpost.
"Thanks, Mom, for all the sacrifices, laughs, and love."
Google is not the only reminding us to celebrate Mother's Day.
Hike, Facebook, Yahoo Mail all have something special planned for Mother's Day.
Here's a look.
Facebook has rolled out new feature for Mother’s Day, where users can send flowers to their mother, via Messenger along with a flower reaction.
The company has added a new flower button, which appears next to the text messaging box.
The icon animates your message with flowers.
The flower animation also extends to photos and GIFs.
Facebook is also bringing new Mother’s Day themed stickers to its messaging platform.
Read more here
Hike Messenger has launched its Mother’s Day microapp that will allow users to share stickers and cards, designed around Mother's Day.
Hike's Mother’s Day microapp has been live since May 7.
Timex has launched its Weekender range, a collection of watches designed around the Mother's Day theme.
The Timex Weekender range come with colourful and reversible watch straps.
The watches are available starting at Rs 3,495.
Vistaprint has launched Photobook for Mother's Day, where users can get their photographs printed, and create a photobook.
Users can get their photobooks created in online editor, a simple photobook or offline editor.
Vistaprint is also offering another way where users can upload the photographs on Facebook, Instagram, Flickr, Picasa, etc and the company will design and share the PDF for approval.
Users can pay after they approve the PDF and a hard copy will then be sent too them.
The service starts at Rs 250 for a small photobook.
Yahoo Mail is allowing users to compose mails with Mother’s Day-themed stationery by Paperless Post.
Users can click on the flower next to Compose, to choose from several designs.
The feature can be used throughout the week, starting today.
Also, users can add an animated GIF in the note.
A number of GIFs can be browsed using keywords like love, hearts and flowers.
The Mother’s Day stationery is available for Yahoo Mail users on desktop in the US, Australia, Canada, India, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore and South Africa.
Samsung Galaxy J7, J5 (2016) launched in India at Rs 15,990 and Rs 13,990Samsung Galaxy S7 edge to LeEco Le 1s (Eco): Best smartphones to gift on Mother’s DayHappy Mother’s Day: How you can make it special with Google, Yahoo, Timex and moreReliance Jio 4G-ready SIM: Here is how you can get hold of oneApple iPhone 7 will be a must-buy, says Tim Cook: Here’s what rumours are claimingIrctc.co.in hacked?
Here’s a look at other key data theftsXiaomi Mi 5, Redmi Note 3 sale at 2 pm: Everything you need to knowLeEco Le 1s Eco comes with Supertainment package: Here are all the featuresCoolpad Note 3 Lite, Lenovo Vibe P1m, Yu Yunique and more: Best Android phones under Rs 7000Docoss X1 at Rs 888: Why this low-priced smartphone is hard to acceptDocoss X1 priced at Rs 888: Check out the first real imagesFacebook, Samsung, Apple and more: How tech companies performed this quarter