Pokemon Sun and Moon launches November 18 in North America, November 23 in Europe
Meet the game's three new starter Pokemon.
Pokemon Sun and Pokemon Moon will launch for 3DS on November 18 in North America and November 23 in Europe, Nintendo announced.
The first trailer released for the game today introduces the game’s new starter Pokemon: Rowlet, Litten and Popplio.
Category: Grass Quill Pokémon Height: 1’00” Weight: 3.3 lbs.
Type: Grass/Flying Starting Move: Leafage
Rowlet can attack without making a sound!
It flies silently through the skies, drawing near to its opponent without being noticed, and then lashing out with powerful kicks.
It can also attack from a distance using the razor-sharp leaves that form part of its feathers.
Its visual abilities are impressive.
The darkness of night is no obstacle to Rowlet!
It can twist its neck nearly 180° from front to back so it can see directly behind itself.
It has a habit of turning its head in battle to face its Trainer and receive instructions.
The move Leafage attacks an opponent by striking it with leaves.
Rowlet knows this move from the moment it becomes your partner!
Category: Fire Cat Pokémon Height: 1’04” Weight: 9.5 lbs.
Type: Fire Starting Move: Ember
Logical but also passionate, Litten always remains coolheaded and doesn’t show its emotions on the surface.
Litten can attack with flaming hairballs!
Its fur is rich in oils and immensely flammable.
Litten grooms itself by licking its fur, and then uses the collected fur as fuel for fireball attacks!
When the time comes for Litten to shed its old fur, it all burns up in a glorious blaze.
The move Ember attacks an opponent by firing a small flame at it.
Litten knows this move from the moment it becomes your partner!
Category: Sea Lion Pokémon Height: 1’04” Weight: 16.5 lbs.
Type: Water Starting Move: Water Gun
Popplio’s swimming speed is known to exceed 25 mph.
It’s better at moving in the water than on land.
Still, when it’s on land, it takes advantage of the elasticity of its balloons to perform acrobatic stunts and jumps.
Popplio can snort out balloons made of water!
Watch it spin water balloons into a playful battle strategy!
Both frivolous and hard-working, Popplio can easily get carried away—unleashing enough power in battle to make quite a spectacle!
But Popplio’s determined spirit means it can usually be found practicing hard on its balloon skills.
The Water Gun move attacks an opponent by firing a jet of water.
Popplio knows this move from the moment it becomes your partner!
Watch the first trailer below.
View a set of high-res artworks at the gallery .