Chinese handset maker Meizu on Wednesday unveiled its new m3 note
smartphone in India.
At an event in New Delhi, Meizu showcased the new m-series
smartphone which brings a host of improvements over its predecessor, the Meizu m2 note .
Some of the improvements in the new Meizu m3 note
include an all-metal body, a new fingerprint scanner, multi-window
support, and a larger battery.
Leon Zhang, Marketing Head, Meizu
India, also talked about how the brand has grown in India since its
debut.
The company claimed it now has over 100 service centres and also
introduced a new WhatsApp service for Meizu users.
At the event, we
spent some time with the Meizu m3 note and here are our first
impressions.
To start off, the Meizu m3 note doesn't really look
anything the company has launched before.
Zhang noted that the m3 note
was the first all-metal m-series smartphone.
The device sports a unibody
design and is made of 6000 series aluminium alloy.
The front is
dominated by the screen which sports 2.5D curved glass.
There is a
physical home button as well, with an embedded fingerprint scanner.
You'll also see a camera, earpiece, and sensors above the display.
The
rear has antenna bands running along the top and bottom.
The primary
camera is placed in the centre and is accompanied by a dual-LED flash.
The Meizu logo is embossed lower down.
The power and volume buttons are
on the right, while the left has the SIM card and microSD card slot.
The
3.5mm audio jack is on top, while charging port and speakers are on the
bottom.
Overall, the m3 note looks like a solid device and fits
well in hand.
The device definitely feels sturdier than the m2 note
which was all plastic.
Despite featuring a 5.5-inch screen, the m3 note
was easy to use with just one hand.
The physical home button was easy
reachable with our thumb.
The m3 note features a 5.5-inch full-HD
(1080x1920 pixels) LTPS screen with a pixel density of 403ppi.
Zhang
added that the screen has a high contrast ratio of 1000:1 and is bright
at 450 nits.The handset is powered by an octa-core MediaTek Helio
P10 SoC (four 1.8GHz Cortex-A53 cores and four 1GHz Cortex-A53 cores,
plus Mali-T860 graphics) which the company claimed offers 125 percent
better graphics performance compared to the m2 note.
The 4100mAh battery
is one of the highlights of this device.
Meizu had launched two
variants of the m3 note in China, one with 2GB of RAM and 16GB of
inbuilt storage, and the other with 3GB of RAM and 32GB of inbuilt
storage.
The company has brought only the latter variant to India.
During
our limited time with the handset, the Meizu m3 note handled
multitasking and app switching pretty easily without any lag.
For
connectivity, the smartphone supports 4G on both SIMs.
The company
claims that the m3 note supports 6 modes and 18 frequency bands,
including Indian LTE bands.
The physical home button on the m3
note smartphone also works as a back button, just like the one on the
Meizu m2 note.
The Marketing Head of Meizu India explained during his
keynote that users have to tap the home button to go back, while
pressing it will take them to the homescreen.
Unfortunately, we couldn't
test the fingerprint sensor on the phone at the launch.
The Meizu
m3 note runs Flyme 5 OS based on Android 5.1 Lollipop and the company
touted that it brings several improvements over Flyme 4.5.
Meizu said
that power consumption has decreased by up to 32 percent on m3 note
running Flyme 5 compared to the m2 note.
One of the biggest
highlights of the Flyme 5 is multi-window support, which splits the
screen in two halves and allows users to perform two functions
simultaneously.
On the m3 note, users will have to swipe up from the
bottom of the screen to access their recently opened apps, and the
multi-window option appears on one of the app cards.
The first half of
the screen shows the app which was in use while the second half can be
used for another app.
Some of the other enhancements that Flyme 5
brings are a revamped Gallery app which can now sort photos based on
time or place; a new Wi-Fi doctor feature that can attempt to fix
problems with connections, and new Quick Share feature that allows data
to be transferred at 17Mbps through Wi-Fi.
Some other features of Flyme 5
are an inbuilt storage cleaner, a RAM optimiser, and an anti-virus
tool.
The company at the event also announced that the Flyme 5
will be rolling out to all Meizu smartphones launched in India this
year.
The smartphone sports a 13-megapixel rear camera with an
f/2.2 aperture and phase-detection autofocus.
It also features Corning
Gorilla Glass 3 for lens protection.
There is a 5-megapixel front-facing
camera with an f/2.0 aperture as well.
The images we took in artificial
indoor lighting seemed vibrant with good colour reproduction.
Low light
shots taken with the m3 note seemed above average.
The front
5-megapixel camera also produced decent-looking samples.
We will however
reserve our verdict on the phone's overall performance and camera
quality till we get the chance to put it through our detailed review
process.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.