BENGALURU: Amazon India is helping vendors source packaging supplies in an effort to standardise packaging for purchases across its platform. This is also the first time the ecommerce giant has taken such an initiative globally.  Currently, orders that are fulfilled by Amazon and sent from the company's warehouse have Amazon-branded packaging. However, nearly a quarter of the vendors on the platform use their own packaging.  Under this new initiative, these sellers will be able to buy Amazon-branded packaging materials such as corrugated boxes, thermocol balls and air filled packets on the portal.  "We have been piloting this for a while now and realised that it ensures consistency, enhances shopping experience and facilitates easy delivery and exchange," said Gopal Pillai, director of seller services, Amazon India. "A quality experience results in repeat business for sellers, enabling them to grow their businesses sustainably," he added.  Over the years, packaging used for shipments have become better and stronger to protect the range of small to high-end products that ecommerce companies need to deliver. Yet, online sellers face high return rates for spoiled merchandise, which is primarily due to inadequate packaging and can be minimised with the use of standardised materials. With nearly 20,000 sellers expected to buy packaging material online, Amazon will also see a surge in revenues.  Experts said the concept to offer their platform to sellers could be extended for different verticals too, something that few players have been experimenting with. "For sellers, this could mean a lesser rejection rate and lesser cost or wastage per packing, since the marketplace would be giving guidance in the art of packing," said Sreedhar Prasad, Partner - Ecommerce at KPMG. "For the market place, this is an additional revenue stream from the ecosystem itself," he added.  Vendors aren't complaining either. In fact, some of them wish other ecommerce companies follow Amazon.  "Now I can do away with the hassle of looking for the right wrapping materials. While Amazon has started this, Snapdeal still provides polybags," said Danish Lakdawala, who sells gourmet products online.
By Richa Maheshwari, ET Bureau | 13 May, 2016, 05.38AM IST
Amazon India is helping vendors source packaging supplies in an effort to standardise packaging for purchases across its platform.
BENGALURU: Amazon India is helping vendors source packaging supplies in an effort to standardise packaging for purchases across its platform.
This is also the first time the ecommerce giant has taken such an initiative globally.
Currently, orders that are fulfilled by Amazon and sent from the company's warehouse have Amazon-branded packaging.
However, nearly a quarter of the vendors on the platform use their own packaging.
Under this new initiative, these sellers will be able to buy Amazon-branded packaging materials such as corrugated boxes, thermocol balls and air filled packets on the portal.
"We have been piloting this for a while now and realised that it ensures consistency, enhances shopping experience and facilitates easy delivery and exchange," said Gopal Pillai , director of seller services, Amazon India.
"A quality experience results in repeat business for sellers, enabling them to grow their businesses sustainably," he added.
Over the years, packaging used for shipments have become better and stronger to protect the range of small to high-end products that ecommerce companies need to deliver.
Yet, online sellers face high return rates for spoiled merchandise, which is primarily due to inadequate packaging and can be minimised with the use of standardised materials.
With nearly 20,000 sellers expected to buy packaging material online, Amazon will also see a surge in revenues.
Experts said the concept to offer their platform to sellers could be extended for different verticals too, something that few players have been experimenting with.
"For sellers, this could mean a lesser rejection rate and lesser cost or wastage per packing, since the marketplace would be giving guidance in the art of packing," said Sreedhar Prasad , Partner - Ecommerce at KPMG .
"For the market place, this is an additional revenue stream from the ecosystem itself," he added.
Vendors aren't complaining either.
In fact, some of them wish other ecommerce companies follow Amazon.
"Now I can do away with the hassle of looking for the right wrapping materials.
While Amazon has started this, Snapdeal still provides polybags," said Danish Lakdawala, who sells gourmet products online.
DON'T MISSany stories, follow us on Twitter
Email