May 11th 2016, 12:05by A.W.
| WASHINGTON, DC
MOST instances of road rage come about in the same way.
Drivers are frustrated with other drivers who, in one way or another, impede their ability to get where they’re going as quickly as they’d like.
“Air rage” can’t really follow the same pattern, since passengers on a plane have no control over the speed with which they’ll reach their destination.
Instead, it stems from a variety of sources, including poor service, discomfort and flight delays.
But one of the most common sources of air rage has nothing to do with negative experiences on board a plane.
Quite the opposite.
According to a new study , passengers are far more prone to misbehaviour if they see that other passengers are having a better experience.
Published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences the study finds that passengers in economy class are 3.8 times more likely to become unruly if the plane also contains a first-class section.
If those passengers have to walk through first class to get to their seats, their odds of experiencing air rage double again.
“We suggest that physical and situational inequality are built into people’s everyday environments—such as the modern airplane—and that exposure to these forms of inequality can trigger anti-social behaviour,” write the paper’s authors, Katherine DeCelles of the University of Toronto and Michael Norton of Harvard.
It is not an altogether surprising phenomenon, given how we tend to experience happiness and its absence.
A study from 2010 found that rising economic well-being doesn’t make the broader population any happier.
Instead, an increase in wealth brings about happiness only if others aren’t experiencing the same boon.
People are more content if their incomes rise relative to their neighbours or colleagues or university classmates.
We don’t compare ourselves to our needs; we compare ourselves to the people around us.
So it goes on an airplane.
If an airline upgrades all the seats on its planes and makes them considerably more comfortable, passengers might not appreciate the change all that much.
But if a passenger gets bumped to first class and enjoys more comfort than most of the others on board—well, there’s something to write home about.
And as the PNAS study shows, that works in reverse: witnessing other people experiencing more comfort makes flyers prone to getting ticked off.
In an era in which airlines are increasingly investing in upgraded first- and business-class experiences while packing as many price-sensitive flyers as possible into coach, this sense of envy is unlikely to ebb.
But the Boeings and Airbuses of the world might at least consider installing middle-of-the-aircraft entrances that don’t require economy passengers to walk past their better-heeled fellow travellers.
PreviousThe dragon takes flight:
China passes a milestone in business travel
Next
Our correspondents inform and entertain business travellers with news and views to help them make the most of life on the road
Gulliver 60 mins ago
Buttonwood's notebook 2 hrs 33 mins ago
United States 3 hrs 7 mins ago
Middle East and Africa May 11th, 5:00
The Economist explains May 11th, 4:47
International May 10th, 18:46
Free exchange May 10th, 18:41
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more