Adult video site Pornhub is offering as much as $25,000 to hack its website and find flaws.
TOI Tech | May 11, 2016, 04.38 PM IST
Adult video site Pornhub is offering as much as $25,000 to hack its website and find flaws.
The company has announced its " bug bounty program" which invites people to hack its website and discover bugs.
The public launch of Pornhub's Bug Bounty Program follows a private, invite-only beta programme that the adult entertainment site ran last year, which compensated participants for helping to identify and fix about two dozen bugs.
The bounties, which range from $50 to $25,000, are dependent upon the vulnerability reported and will be granted entirely at the discretion of Pornhub .
With this, Pornhub joins a number of technology giants that have recently implemented Bug Bounty programs, including DropBox , Google , Yahoo!, Twitter, Adobe and Twitter.
"Like other major tech players have been doing as of late, we're tapping some of the most talented security researchers as a proactive and precautionary measure - in addition to our dedicated developer and security teams -- to ensure not only the security of our site but that of our users, which is paramount to us," said Corey Price, vice president, Pornhub .
Bengaluru hacker finds Facebook bug, awarded Rs 10 lakh The Facebook bug, if exploited, could let hackers access a user’s messages, photos and even debit/credit card details stored in the payments section, among others.
"The brand new program provides some of our developer-savvy fans a chance to earn some extra cash - upwards to $25K - and the opportunity to be included in helping to protect and enhance the site for our 60 million daily visitors."
To qualify, one must:
1.
Be the first to report a technical security vulnerability
2.
Send a clear textual description of the report along with steps to reproduce the vulnerability
3.
Include attachments such as screenshots or proof of concept code
4.
Disclose the vulnerability report directly and exclusively to Pornhub.
The Pornhub security team in turn has 30 days to respond to the report, and up to 90 days to implement a fix based on the severity of the report.
Search giant Google recently increases its bug bounty reward for Chromebook to $100,000.
Since launching the bugs bounty programme in 2010, Google has reportedly paid over $6 million to researchers who have been finding bugs.
Facebook recently awarded a 10-year-old boy from the Helsinki, Finnish capital city, after he successfully uncovered a major security flaw in the code of the company's photo-sharing application Instagram.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia