 
BORIS Johnson is the populist figurehead of the Vote Leave campaign in Britain's EU referendum.
His jokey manner was appealing enough to Londoners that he was elected Mayor twice, although admittedly he was running against Ken Livingstone.
But he has acquired a reputation for bluster rather than fact-checking.
Some of his errors might not seem serious; the little jokes about children with balloons and tea bag recycling are about trivial subjects.
But they are aimed at creating the public perception that the EU is a vast edifice of mindless regulation.
And repeating things that are not true, when they are easily checked, is a worrying sign.
When it comes to the future of the UK outside the EU, it is of course perfectly reasonable to argue that it could prosper, although most experts feel the effects will be detrimental.
Infacts has its own webpage about Mr Johnson's errors but he may well argue that some of these errors are differences of interpretation.
Part of the frustration of the British public is that they want facts but it is impossible to create objective facts about the hypothetical situations that will occur post-June 23.
All we can have are forecasts, and forecasts are often wrong.
But you can have facts about the past.
So your blogger choked on his nightly cocoa when Mr Johnson said, on last night's BBC Ten O'Clock News (around 14 minutes in) that
I would remind you that everybody said the pound would fall as a result of our leaving the ERM and on the contrary the pound strengthened.
And interest rates were cut.
Well he's right that rates were cut.
But as someone who was writing about the crisis at the time, the statement about the pound was contrary to my memory.
And indeed here's the graph.
The pound plunged against the dollar, and in trade-weighted terms, in late 1992; it kept falling even after September 16 (Black Wednesday) the day of sterling's departure from the Exchange Rate Mechanism.
Mr Johnson's answer was in response to a question about whether the pound (and the markets) would rise or fall in the event of Brexit.
This is a subject where the Bank of England, and most currency strategists, think there is a risk of a sharp decline.
So he must clearly have anticipated the question and prepared an answer.
So what explains the error?
Could Mr Johnson have been talking about the longer term?
Well the pound did get back to its pre-1992 levels against the dollar in the mid-2000s but to attribute that to "post-ERM strength" would be the height of absurdity (and the pound, of course, is below $1.50 now).
There was a rally against European currencies in 1993 but in trade-weighted terms, sterling didn't get back to its pre-Black Wednesday level until July 1997.
That does not meet the conventional dictionary definition of "strengthened".
The most charitable conclusion is that Mr Johnson didn't bother to check his facts before answering.
That ought to ring warning bells with voters about Mr Johnson's assertions concerning the rosy post-Brexit future and indeed of the attention to detail of a man who wants to be Conservative party leader and prime minister.
PreviousBritain's EU referendum:
Which side is winning the debate?
Next