Indian television manufacturer Vu has launched a new range of smart
televisions at affordable prices.
The PremiumSmart TV range has four
models available in different sizes: 32-inch (HD resolution, Rs.
20,000), 40-inch (full-HD resolution, Rs.
30,000), 50-inch (full-HD
resolution, Rs.
42,000) and 55-inch (full-HD resolution, Rs.
52,000).
The range is available to buy now on Indian e-commerce platform
Flipkart.
Speaking at the launch, Devita Saraf, CEO and Design Head,
Vu Technologies, commented, "We live in a globalised world, where the
demand for high quality and entertaining content has evolved the
geographical limitations.
Although traditionally, TV has been referred
to as the Idiot Box, we were curious to discover how we may smarten up
the same.
The curiosity led to the creation of PremiumSmart TV with
Quad-core Internet video processor, providing excellent entertainment
services."
Also present at the launch was Amit Bansal - Head Large
Appliances, Flipkart, who said, "As India's largest e-commerce
marketplace our focus is the offer the best platform for brands to
introduce their products to the Indian masses.
The success of Vu on
Flipkart is a great example of how home-grown electronic brands can set
their own standards in the Indian online space.
Since its launch, Vu has
dominated the LED and smart television segment by offering customers
world-class technology and design at affordable price points.
This
journey has been very exciting and it gives us great pleasure to
exclusively launch this new series premium smart TVs by Vu on our
platform today."
The key feature of this range is the smart
connectivity, which lets you access the Internet through a built-in Web
browser, mirror your smartphone screen, and access a small range of
applications that deliver content and information over the Internet
directly to your TV.
Pre-installed and supported applications on the TVs
include Netflix, YouTube, Facebook, and AccuWeather, among others.
Additionally, the range will also feature direct access buttons for
Netflix and YouTube on the remote itself, similar to the Vu Smart TV
range that was launched in January this year .
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.
Resident audiophile.
Spoilt South Bombay brat.
Would rather be on a beach somewhere, but needs the money and likes writing.
Orbital Episode 4: Farewell Intel?