Despite successfully attracting several marquee investors, Telangana is disappointed with its not-so-pleasing 16th rank in the World Bank's ease-of-doing business index while its sibling Andhra Pradesh managed to grab the second rank.
Kalvakuntla Taraka Rama Rao (KTR), son of Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao , who took charge as industries minister last week, is now on a mission to achieve a better ranking this time.
KTR talks to ET's CR Sukumar the measures being taken up.
Excerpts: How do you look at the poor ranking in ease-of-doing business although you claim to have a highly-attractive industrial policy?
We were disappointed with the ranking.
Immediately after taking charge as the industries minister, I explored why Telangana could not fare well in the World Bank's rankings.
We found it is not just about having a good policy but also about a lot of other issues interlinked and about compliance.
We have initiated the process to look into shortcomings pertaining to compliance.
We have identified a few departments that were lagging when it comes to compliance.
Which are these departments?
Some of these departments include law, municipal administration and urban development, energy, revenue and stamps, and registration.
What were their limitations?
We need to have fast-track commercial courts for easy resolution and speedy redressal of disputes towards expedited justice.
We found the absence of such courts was affecting the business environment.
Of course, no Indian state has set up fast-track commercial courts so far, though some have tried.
We are looking at reaching out to the High Court to help set up such courts.
We also found the need for ensuring better coordination between the departments of municipal administration and urban development, revenue and stamps and registrations to effectively address issues like clearances, title disputes and taxation.
When it comes to the energy department, we hope to ensure industrial consumers get not just uninterrupted power supply but also quality supply.
We are working towards efficient energy management through SCADA alert systems and hope to implement it soon.
When do you hope to achieve these targets?
Most of these targets, over 90 per cent or so, should be fulfilled by June-end or so.
We have decided to monitor and review the compliance on ease-of-doing business initiatives on a regular basis, once in a fortnight, at the highest level of chief secretary, secretaries and ministers.
We are asking each of these departments to set up their respective dashboards to display their extent of compliance.
This will help us effectively monitor their compliance levels from anywhere.
What World Bank ranking is your aim for this time?
We are hoping that all the measures that we have been taking up should help us get better ranking this time.
While many states have been doing their best and striving to improve their rankings, we have set an internal target of achieving a rank among the top three Indian states.
Attracting investors is okay but how about retaining the existing investors?
Ease-of-doing business is not just for attracting fresh investments but also about business expansion and continuity of existing investors.
We need to protect the interests of existing investors, who will become the biggest brand ambassadors for us.
We are also working on various initiatives to ensure the same.
Will not-so-attractive ranking deter investments into Telangana?
Irrespective of the ranking, Telangana will attract significant investments of over Rs 35,000 crore in less than a year with clearances to some 1,700 industrial units and employment to over 1.25 lakh people after announcing the policy past June.
We will attract several marquee investors independent of our ranking.
There is a positive environment, and facilitation from the government side is also there.
How do you look at the concerns of investors on dubious land titles around Hyderabad?
We are coming out with a permanent solution to this problem.
We are looking at integrating the database of registration department and revenue department.
The software is currently in testing mode and it should take off soon, putting to rest most of the issues around the titles and double registrations.
How do you look at concerns of industries on frequent inspections?
Even now, we say the policy of the Telangana government is minimum inspection and maximum facilitation.
We want to do away with the frequent inspections by departments.