An
Android security researcher has found a way to bypass the factory reset
protection (FRP) in the latest Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow build complete
with the latest May Android Security Update .
While it's a
complicated process, the method detailed by RootJunky apparently manages
to bypass the factory reset protection system on the Huawei-made Nexus 6P .
The
researcher has detailed the bypass, meant specifically for Nexus
devices, in a YouTube video seen later in the article.
RootJunky
explains that when Nexus users (or thieves) have reset their
smartphones, they can skip the FRP check by disconnecting the Wi-Fi
they're currently connected to.
One they have done so, they can then
create a Google account using a special apk file and the preloaded
Chrome browser.
Once they have signed into the new account, and the
phone syncs to the account, they can then reset the smartphone again -
but this time, they know the password to the account the smartphone, and
will have full access to the smartphone.
To recall, Google first introduced Factory Reset Protection, also known as Device Protection, with Android 5.1 Lollipop.
The system is meant to ensure that if an Android device has been stolen, the thief cannot gain full access to the device even after factory resetting it.
The researcher says he
submitted this bypass, which he says works on Nexus devices with older
security patches as well, to Google along with other privilege
escalation methods as security risks.
Google however did not acknowledge
the bypass to be a real security risk.
Of course, while the method is
complex, it is not so complex that determined smartphone thieves cannot
use it to reset a large number of stolen devices.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.
You’ll most likely find Abhinav editing news stories, humouring his possibly unhealthy interest in playing Street Fighter, and defending where his beliefs lie in the More
The Weekend Chill: Captain America Civil War, Battleborn, and More