Companies in Romania need IT professionals with knowledge of coding, but are having to train their own teams after struggling to find recruits.
There are just too few developers in Romania’s labour market to meet the needs of local enterprises.
According to the 2016 Talentspotting Survey from Romanian technology recruiter Brainspotting, the country’s most sought-after professionals are software developers (55%), followed by testers (9%) and developers of mobile applications, iOS/Android (4%).
The survey showed the highest demand in programming skills is for Java, PHP, Net/C# and C/C++.
“Many companies operating in Romania want to hire skilled programmers, but cannot find them,” said Marcel Borodi, general director of Romanian IT integrator Brinel .
“There is a growing tendency to abandon traditional ways of recruiting and try to acquire talented young people from universities and even from high schools.”
US software development company 3Pillar Global has had a presence in Romania since 2009.
It currently employs 350 people in two centres – Cluj Napoca (230 specialists) and Timisoara (120) – and plans to hire 100 more programmers this year.
Specialists with software development skills for internet communication are needed, with knowledge of Java, Python and Ruby on Rails in demand.
“Our teams of developers in Romania work exclusively on requests from US and British customers,” said Stef.
“They provide products for foreign markets and play the role of technical consultants.”
3Pillar is recruiting because of growing demand for software developed by Romanian engineers.
Difficulties in finding qualified senior developers have led it to train staff internally to fill the gaps.
In February this year, DB Global Technology, Deutsche Bank’s global technology centre in Bucharest, launched a Java school programme to train specialists interested in developing Java coding skills.
The Java school is designed for students in their final year of ICT studies, and for people with a bachelor’s or master’s degree in fields such as informatics or software engineering.
The programme, which runs from February to June, was launched under the Bucharest Excellence School umbrella, DB Global Technology’s learning and development programme.
The 20 Java school participants are paid while they study and afterwards can get jobs in Deutsche Bank’s global technology centre in Bucharest.
They can also attend specialised courses that combine theoretical elements with Java programming projects.
Deutsche Bank’s technology centre in Bucharest has 300 employees and plans to add 200.
It develops software for the bank’s global operations and is a platform for skilled software engineers.
Later this year, Ixia, a US provider of application performance and security tools to validate and optimise networks, will run paid internships for Romanian students in programming, software development and application security.
Trainees will work in teams alongside experienced engineers and will be able to develop their programming skills in languages such as Ruby, Python, PHP, Java and C/C++, as well as database management and application security.
The most talented students will be offered jobs at Ixia Romania.
“Maintaining a relationship with the academic community and recruiting talented people from there is an important element of our business strategy,” said Theodore Ceausu, country manager at Ixia Romania .
“Internships give us the opportunity to help talent young people to take their ideas to market and discover the entrepreneur within.”
Ixia Romania, as a supplier, creates and develops applications for Cisco, Vodafone, Orange, Oracle, Ericsson and AT&T.
Luxoft, another global supplier of software services, recently announced plans to employ 100 more programmers at its Romanian centre.
New recruits will expand its teams of specialists, who mainly create and develop infotainment systems for motor vehicles.
With 1,400 employees on board, Luxoft Romania focuses on three main technology verticals: automotive, financial and telecom.
Its customers include Alcatel-Lucent, Alstom, Avaya, Bosch, Dell, Ford, HP, Juniper, Kaspersky Lab, Microsoft, Oracle and Panasonic.
“Luxoft offers young candidates the opportunity to work in niche areas, to participate in the development of software products marketed directly from its own laboratories and be exposed to international projects,” said Bogdan Pelinescu, managing director at Luxoft Romania.
Softelligence, a Romanian provider of business software services, plans to increase its workforce by about 50, including programmers versed in languages C++/CLI, C#, F#, J# and Delphi 8 on NET.
platform.
The supplier works with companies such as Allianz, Aon, DB Schenker, ING Bank, Mercedes Benz Financial and Honeywell.
Mihaela Dinu, HR manager at Softelligence Romania , said the company’s strategy is to recruit people and train them itself rather than look for experienced candidates.
“It is a very difficult task to find the specialists we need on the labour market,” he said.
“It is much easier is to find [promising people] and train them.
After months of education and practice, they gain the necessary skills and can join our teams of engineers as fully fledged programmers.”