The Audi SQ7 uses three turbochargers
The idea of an XXL-dimensioned, diesel-powered, seven seat SUV with sporting ambitions may seem counter-intuitive, but that’s what Audi is offering with the new SQ7, the high performance version of its recently launched Q7 , writes Richard Bremner .
Despite its unusual composition this car is not alone, BMW’s four-wheel drive M50d also combining sizeable scale with sporting thrust, as do the Porsche Cayenne S and Range Rover Sport SDV8.
But among these rivals only the BMW can be had with seven seats, and none is as brisk as the Audi, whose not inconsiderable bulk romps to 62mph in just under five seconds, a time as unlikely as it is impressive.
The SQ7's dash is one of the best you can buy for any sum of money
It partly achieves this by having a lightweight, part-aluminium body structure that’s also relatively slippery through the air, but mostly this performance is achieved with good old-fashioned grunt, and plenty of it.
Specifically 429bhp and 664lb ft of torque, the second of these figures the key to its performance.
Not only is this number big, but it’s also produced from just 1,000rpm.
If that doesn’t mean much to you worry not – it translates into an instant, unhesitating surge of go from the moment you sink the accelerator.
Audi is proud of this characteristic, which is aimed in particular at North American drivers who set much store by the ease with which they can merge with the oncoming torrent of traffic on the Interstate.
Given the likelihood of having to dice with giant-size Peterbilt and Kenworth trucks, the desire for these capabilities is understandable.
The low-rev torque delivery is achieved by using no less than three compressors to force-feed the Audi’s 4.0-litre diesel V8, two of them conventional exhaust-driven turbos, the third an electric compressor that assists at low engine speeds.
There’s more complexity besides, one of each of the quartet of valves serving each cylinder occasionally dormant in the interests of optimizing power and emissions.
The SQ7 costs from £70,970
The engine management system controlling all this has plenty of juggling to do, but on the road you have no sense of the electro-mechanical orchestrations beneath the SQ7’s sizeable bonnet, the end result being a fat, seamless stream of instantaneous urge.
Climbing a steep hill with a full complement of passengers and luggage is unlikely to be a challenge aboard this machine.
Although an exploration of its sporting credentials does reveal a circumstance when there is a pause in the SQ7’s power delivery, despite the claims from Audi engineers that this electric turbocharger – a world first – spells the end of throttle lag, or the pause that most turbo cars serve before their compressors spin up some boost.
This admittedly footling flaw was discovered while enjoying the SQ7’s impressively agile way with bends, an ability usefully heightened by an optional package that includes electric body-roll control, a sports differential and four-wheel steering.
It enables this SUV not only to attack curves with great confidence and verve, but also to perform an electronically controlled flick of its tail that you can harness to help it through tight turns.
Behaviour like this is usually the preserve of rear-wheel drive sports cars, but the SQ7 pulls this manoeuvre off with aplomb.
It was while indulging this flourish that a pause in power delivery was uncovered, the delay occasionally interrupting the pleasure.
Audi Q7 2015 video reviewPlay!03:29For most drivers this will be of no consequence, although the brief, cabin-shaking tremor produced by the engine when you suddenly release the accelerator is likely to intrude more often.
Neither of these issues does much to spoil an SUV that successfully combines luxuriant practicality with memorable zest, an armoury of driver aids and an impressively high quotient of technology.
Much of this will eventually find its way into less expensive Audis – good news, given its effectiveness.
Such is the SQ7’s range of abilities, and its passenger carrying potential, that the £70,970 base price seems reasonable value for a vehicle of no small appeal.
Tested: 3,956cc diesel with twin turbos and electric compressor, eight-speed automatic gearbox, four-wheel drive
Price/on sale: £70,970/now
Power/torque: 429bhp @ 3,750-5,000rpm/664lb ft @ 1,000-3,250rpm
Acceleration: 0-62mph in 4.9sec
Fuel economy: 39.2mpg (EU Combined)
VED band: J (£490 first year, £265 thereafter)
Verdict: Not to all tastes, but technically impressive, luxurious and actually not bad value for money considering what it can do.
Telegraph rating: Four out of five stars
Cars the SQ7 has to beat