Component export from India to touch Rs 1,500 cr in FY17: Honda
Ford China monthly sales drop most in a year in April amid slowing economy
How falling gasoline prices are helping car giants sell 'bigger and better'
Google, Fiat Chrysler team up on self-driving minivans
Honda, Nissan break records as auto sales stay hot in April
Mitsubishi says it cheated on fuel tests for decades
BMW races ahead to new quarterly records
Auto sales rebound in April; Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Mahindra domestic car sales rise
Tata Motors shoots up 3% after good sales in April
Subhro Niyogi While the German automaker has one pop-up store in Mumbai's Lower Parel, it plans to add six more stores in Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai and Goa.
Mercedes expects to connect with India's youth through these stores.
| TNN | May 5, 2016, 10.11 PM ISTTier-for luxury car makers and the next phase of growth would come from this segment, said MD and CEO, Mercede... Read More Luxury brand Mercedes-Benz has decided to roll out of exalted showrooms and 'move into' happening joints like cafes where the youth hang out.
While the German automaker has one pop-up store in Mumbai's Lower Parel, it plans to add six more stores in Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai and Goa.
Roland Folger, managing director and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India is optimisti about the resonse expected from the younger generation of Indians.
"The pop-up stores will increase our visibility in the market as we plan to tap the young generation through it.
This is a novel way to create a brand connect with youngsters who are extremely enthusiastic about cars," he said.
"We are opening pop-up stores in multiple places to understand the likeability and choices of today's generation.
This further helps us in expansion of such initiatives that will give a sense of exclusivity to our customers and build a positive affinity towards the brand."
The outreach is in keeping with Mercedes' brand philosophy for 2016 — Winning with Mercedes-Benz.
Through the pop-up stores, the company aims to reach closer to potential customers and make its presence felt.
"The idea is to win the heart and the mind of consumers based on these innovative initiatives to create more awareness, brand recall and connect with consumers on an interpersonal level," said Folger.
"The locations are selected strategically, based on consumer mapping and behavioural patterns.
These pop-up stores will be positioned in places like lounges, pubs, cafes and restaurants to reach out to a larger target audience.
This way, Mercedes-Benz will be able to reach out to youngsters in metros and tier I markets."
The pop-up stores will see sections such as branding and audio-visuals which is expected to enhance consumer interest towards brand Mercedes-Benz.
Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia