The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced has been spotted at a benchmark website, and now more specs of the rumored tablet have appeared online.
A Tech Times report suggested that the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced tablet was spotted at GFXBench with model number SM-T536.
The report highlighted that the unannounced tablet is expected to sports a 10-inch display with a resolution of 1,280 x 800 pixels.
Rumors have also indicated that an octa-core processor and 2 GB of RAM will power the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced and the tablet will come running on the latest Android 6.0 Marshmallow operating system.
The Samsung offering is expected to come with 32 GB of on-board storage.
Some tablet enthusiasts may not find the storage sufficient and Samsung may address the issue with a microSD card slot, which can be used for expanding the storage capacity of the tablet.
The Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced may also include 5-megapixel rear-facing and 2-megapixel front-facing cameras.
The predecessor of the tablet - the Galaxy Tab 4 - did not include autofocus, flash, and face detection; however, the rumored Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced may have these new features.
The tablet may also get a 6,800 mAh battery for long-lasting usage.
Android 6.0 Marshmallow has a number of power management features such as App Standby mode and Doze mode, which could help in conserving the battery life and increasing the usage capacity of the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced.
Twitter user Roland Quandt has posted an image from a PDF file, which re-affirms previously rumored specs of the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced.
However, the tweet also points at some additional details of the Samsung tablet.
Latest rumors suggest that the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced will have an octa-processor clocked at 1.6 GHz.
The tablet is estimated to measure 243.4 x 176.4 x 7.9 mm, or around 9.58 x 6.94 x 0.31 inches, and weigh 487 g, or about 1.07 pounds.
Customers can expand the storage to up to 128 GB with a microSD card.
If the leaked specs are to be believed, then the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced is just a modest bump from its predecessor.
Given the specs, customers should hope that the Samsung tablet will be available at a pocket-friendly price.
Samsung has not yet confirmed any details of the Galaxy Tab 4 Advanced, which means all rumors pertaining to the tablet should be taken with a pinch of salt.
© 2016 Tech Times, All rights reserved.
Do not reproduce without permission.