The Supreme Court Wednesday struck down the Trai regulation making it
mandatory for telecom companies to compensate subscribers for call drops
holding it as "arbitrary, unreasonable and non-transparent".
"We have
held the impugned regulation to be ultra vires, arbitrary, unreasonable
and non-transparent," a bench comprising Justices Kurian Joseph and R F
Nariman said.
The apex court passed the judgement on the appeals
filed by COAI, a body of Unified Telecom Service Providers of India and
21 telecom operators, including Vodafone , Bharti Airtel and Reliance ,
challenging the Delhi High Court order which had upheld the Trai's
decision making it mandatory for them to compensate subscribers for call
drops from this January.
The telecom companies had earlier told
the apex court that the entire sector is under huge debt and they have
to pay big price for spectrum, therefore zero tolerance on call drops should not be imposed on them.
Refuting the allegations of Trai that the telecom service providers are making huge gains in the sector,
the firms had said they have been investing hugely on the
infrastructure.
The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) had earlier told the apex court that it will take action against the
Telcos for call drops to protect the interest of consumers as these
service providers are not willing to compensate them.
The
regulatory body had told the court that it has to safeguard 100 crore
telecom subscribers and if companies agree to compensate call drops with
equal number of free calls to consumers without pre-conditions then it
is open to re-consider its direction imposing penalty on them.
It
had also told the court that a "cartel" of 4-5 telecom firms having a
billion subscribers are making Rs.
250 crores a day but not making
investments on their network to improve services to check call drops.
The
counsel for telecom operators had refuted the allegations of Trai that
telecom companies are not investing on technology and towers and had
said that in past 15 months over two lakh towers have been installed.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.