Until March 2016 Depledge was a board member for lobbying body The Sharing Economy, and currently acts as the venture partner for startup capital firm Ignite 100.
Anna Barsby has been CIO at Halfords since March 2013, where she has led a major IT overhaul and a cloud migration.
As of autumn 2016, Barsby will move to be the chief technology officer at Morrisons to take on the retailer’s digital and IT challenges.
Imafidon founded volunteer organisation Stemettes to inspire the next generation of women into science, technology, engineering and mathematics via a series of panel events, hackathons and through the media.
Prior to Stemettes, Imafidon started her career in IT as a business analyst intern and web designer before becoming an enterprise collaboration strategist at Deutsche Bank.
Prior to 2016, Karia led Silicon Valley Bank’s early stage efforts as vice-president for its origination and entrepreneur commercial banking arm Accelerator.
She has spent much of her career in and around the startup ecosystem, most recently as the venture capital/emerging business lead at Microsoft UK.
She sits on many industry advisory boards, has recently been appointed a trustee for Startup Weekend Europe and is an active supporter of many of London’s top incubators, including Seedcamp, TechStars, Startupbootcamp, Wayra, Entrepreneur First and Level39.
Catherine Doran joined Royal Mail in 2011, and inherited a controversial IT transformation programme, as well as the government’s sell-off of the postal service.
So far the project has seen Royal Mail replace large legacy systems, begin the introduction of 76,000 next generation PDAs and optimise internal operations.
She joined Royal Mail from Network Rail where she led a company-wide transformation programme.
Finn holds an MSc in corporate governance and studied business at Anglia Ruskin University.
Charlotte Holloway is the associate director for policy at industry body TechUK, and works alongside tech companies and policy makers to encourage innovation and digital transformation in the UK economy.
Holloway also acts as a policy fellow for the Centre for Science and Policy at the University of Cambridge and was part of the team supporting angel investor Sherry Coutu CBE during the production of an independent report for government on the opportunities for economic growth in the UK.
Chi Onwurah, Shadow digital economy minister, Labour MP for Newcastle upon Tyne Central
Chinyelu Onwurah is shadow Cabinet Office minister for digital government, including cyber security.
A chartered engineer and former head of telecoms technology at UK telecoms regulator Ofcom, she is co-chair of the Parliamentary ICT forum (Pictfor) and board member of the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology.
Christina Scott was appointed the chief technology officer for News UK at the beginning of 2016 to assist with its digital initiatives.
Prior to 2016, Scott was the CIO for the Financial Times for over three years, where she was responsible for technology across the FT Group, leading a 400+ global team responsible for building and operating the infrastructure, business applications, data and consumer products across multiple platforms.
Scott has over 20 years’ experience across the media, IT and engineering industries - before joining the FT, she worked for the BBC, BT Vision, News International and ITV Digital, and as a consultant at Accenture.
Previously, she was the regional CIO for BG Group, responsible for IT strategies across this global energy company.
Prior to joining BG, she was group strategy and technology director at Transport for London.
She is founder and chairwoman of Entiq, a firm delivering innovation strategy and product development programmes for large corporates.
Clare Sutcliffe, Co-founder of Code Club, Executive Director Communities and Outreach at the Raspberry Pi Foundation
Clare Sutcliffe has brought computing to primary schools without dumbing it down, negotiating to bring major stakeholders like ARM and Google on-board, as well as harnessing the energy of individual volunteers through an open and social approach.
Debbie Forster, COO, CDI Europe; managing director, Apps for Good
Debbie Forster is UK managing director and co-CEO at Apps for Good, an education and technology charity, overseeing business and daily operations.
She also serves as CDI Europe's lead expert on education, public sector and policy.
Forster has 20 years of educational experience, 13 of them in leadership roles, including serving as headteacher of a mixed comprehensive school.
Harding joined Sainsbury's from Tesco where she held a variety of senior roles both in the UK and international businesses.
Prior to this, she worked at Kingfisher and Thomas Cook where she gained considerable retail experience.
In August 2014 Harding was offered a peerage and now sits in the House of Lords as a Conservative peer.
Dr Hannah Dee, Lecturer in Computer Science at Aberystwyth University
Hannah Dee set up the BCSWomen Lovelace Colloquium, the UK's main conference for female undergraduates, which she has run for the last seven years.
Eileen Burbidge, Chair of Tech City; partner, Passion Capital; government special envoy for fintech
She brings extensive operational experience to her investment activities gleaned from business and product development roles at Yahoo!, Skype, PalmSource, Openwave, Sun and Apple.
She also serves as chair for Tech City UK and is the special envoy for FinTech for HM Treasury, as well as member of the Prime Minister’s business advisory group.
She was earlier vice president of global sales, responsible for Google’s largest advertising and agency clients, and led Google's high-growth display advertising business in the Americas, responsible for sales, development, media strategy and operations across YouTube and the Google Display Network.
She led the integration of DoubleClick's platform, rich media and AdExchange businesses into Google.
She has set up new TechHub operations in Bangalore, Bucharest, Berlin and Riga, as well as other UK sites in Manchester and Swansea.
She was one of the founding steering committee members of the DigitalEve women in technology organisation in the UK.
Varley also sits on the board for the Digital City Exchange at Imperial College London.
Emma McGuigan, Managing Director, Accenture's UK and Ireland Technology Group
McGuigan leads Accenture’s work with Stemettes, a charity dedicated to increasing the number of women in Stem careers.
In 2012, she was the technology category winner of Women in the City's Woman of Achievement Awards and in 2013 was made a fellow of The Chartered Institute for IT.
McGuigan is a board member of industry body TechUK and is the treasurer of the Orchid Project.
She has 30 years’ experience in the IT industry, including 22 with IBM, and has undertaken customer-facing technical, sales, business development, strategic marketing and consultancy roles.
She has significant interest in encouraging more women into the science and technology sectors and has chaired a forum for IT trade body Intellect.
Harriet Green, VP & general manager, Internet of Things, Commerce & Education, IBM
Harriet Green is the vice president and general manager for internet of things, commerce and education at IBM, as well as a non-executive director for BAE systems.
Prior to her current role, Green held CEO positions at Premier Farnell and Thomas Cook.
Helen Milner is founder and CEO of the Tinder Foundation, a not-for-profit, staff-owned social enterprise that aims to help the 11 million people on the wrong side of the UK’s digital divide to become confident with digital and online technologies.
The Tinder Foundation won a government contract in 2014 to support its digital inclusion strategy.
Prior to her work at O2 she held several roles throughout government including director of corporate security at the Home Office, chair of the Green ICT Delivery Unit for UK Government and CIO for the Department for Energy and Climate Change.
Kate Russell, Tech Journalist, gamer, author and BBC Click presenter
Baroness Neville-Rolfe is the parliamentary under-secretary of state for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) and minister for Intellectual Property for the UK Government.
As part of her work with BIS, Neville-Rolfe is responsible for regulation, intellectual properly and the EU digital single market.
Maggie Philbin has worked in radio and television for over 30 years on a wide range of science, medical and technology programmes.
She is co-founder and CEO of TeenTech, an award-winning organisation helping young people, their parents and teachers understand more about the real opportunities in science and technology.
Reporting on science and technology for the BBC’s Bang Goes The Theory , providing analysis and comment on technology for BBC Webwise and a regular reporter on BBC 1’s Inside Out, she has a unique resonance with audiences, having grown up with them on much-loved shows such as Swap Shop and Tomorrow’s World .
Margaret Ross, Professor of Software Quality and a Principal Lecturer at Southampton Solent University
Melissa Di Donato, Area Vice President, Salesforce.com Channels and ISVs, EMEA and APAC
Melissa Di Donato joined Salesforce.com in 2010 and is area VP of Wave Analytics Cloud at Salesforce.Prior to her current role, Di Donato was the area vice president of ISV and channel programmes for Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC), during which she chaired a European ISV Advisory Innovation Board.
Di Donato is a board member and advisor to various technology companies in the UK and in Silicon Valley.
As well as her work at Aviva, Shivanandan is the non-executive director for J.P. Morgan Securities PLC and is passionate about science and technology.
Prior to her current role, Shivanandan spent time as chief technology officer for Capital One and was the MD & CIO of BT Retail for four years.
Nicola Mendelsohn, VP EMEA Facebook, non-executive director at Diageo and co-president at Norwood
She is responsible for growing Facebook's advertising revenue and improving relationships with brands across the region.
Neaman has a lot of senior leadership experience in the private, public and not-for-profit sectors in the UK and abroad, and is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) and a chair for network group Digital Leaders.
With skills in leadership and management, Moran is a non-executive director of electricity company Eirgrid in Ireland, is a member of theDCU Governing Authority for Dublin City University and is the president of networking group Engineers Ireland.
Entrepreneur and founder of So You Wanna Be on TV?, Rioch Edwards-Brown, is an advocate for diversity and has extensive media experience.
as a community outreach programme after son was shot and stabbed at school, and uses the platform to tackle the lack of diversity and social mobility in TV by providing free employability skills through partnerships between TV, brands, corporates and the community.
Burnett is an analyst in information technology services and business process outsourcing.
Prior to working for Everest Group, Burnett was the VP of research at Nelson Hall covering areas such as infrastructure ITO, cloud, and government BPO.
Sarah Luxford, Director at Nexec Leaders and lead of Women in London Tech Group
At the Home Office she is responsible for many of the most critical IT systems supporting UK borders and policing.
Wilkinson was managing director and head of corporate systems technology at Credit Suisse for over two years, having previously worked at HSBC, UBS and Deutsche Bank in various senior IT roles.
She also sits on Telefonica’s startup accelerator Wayra as a board adviser, and is a non-executive director at the Police ICT Company.
Unruly uses emotional audience data and user-friendly video formats to massively increase viewer engagement, brand performance & publisher revenues across the web.
Previously a lecturer in American Studies at the University of Sussex, Wood is now an associate lecturer and course convenor for the University of Cambridge focusing on devising and delivering the "Creation, Consumption, Revolution: Online Video Culture" module as part of the Screen Cultures MPhil course.
Sharon Moore, Industry Technical Leader for Travel & Transportation, IBM UK
Sharon White took over as Chief Executive of Ofcom in March 2015 after spending two years as the Second Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury, the first black person, and the second woman, to hold the position.
Prior to working with the Treasury, White had board level positions at the Ministry of Justice and the Department for International Development and was a civil service adviser at the Prime Minister's Policy Unit.
Sheila Flavell was appointed chief operating officer of IT service firm FDM Group in 2008.
She played an integral role in the group’s flotation on AIM in 2005 and was a key instigator of the management buy-out of the group in 2010 and the subsequent float onto the main FTSE market in June 2014.
She advises and serves on the boards of companies, charities and institutions such as the London Stock Exchange, Cambridge University, LinkedIn, Raspberry Pi and Care.com.
She founded and chairs the not-for-profit Founders4schools.org.uk, Silicon Valley Comes 2 The UK and serves on the board of the Francis Crick Institute.
Her career spans over 20 years in financial services, leading business, technology and operational teams across global organisations.
In 2015 she launched Could IT Be You?, a competition for girls aged between 16 and 18, that asks them to explain how technology can improve their lives and make things better.
Three runners-up received two weeks of paid work experience and mentoring with the Network Rail IT team.
Trudy Norris-Grey is chair of Wise (Women in science, engineering and technology) and managing director of Microsoft’s public sector business in Central and Eastern Europe.
The Wise campaign is aimed at encouraging more girls and women to pursue STEM careers.
Previously she held senior executive positions in BT, Sun Microsystems, Oracle and Eastman Kodak.
Brock launched Clear Returns in 2012 to tackle the omni-channel problems faced by retailers.
Tan White co-founded and is CEO of Moonfruit, a DIY website and online shop builder for small businesses.
Tan White is a general partner at Entrepreneur First, a programme and fund focused on early stage ‘deep’ tech companies, and is an advisory board member for the Government Digital Service.
Voting has opened for your chance to help choose the most influential woman in UK IT for 2016.
Computer Weekly readers can now vote on who should be recognised as the 2016 most influential woman in UK IT from the list of names below.
Editor's note: The final list of the most influential women in UK IT will be chosen by combining the decision of the judging panel with the votes of our readers.
The combined reader vote will carry the same weight as that of one judge, and will provide the UK IT professional input into the order of the list.