SanDisk
has launched a new, slimmed down version of its iXpand Flash Drive for
iOS devices, along with a variety of other portable storage products for
various purposes.
The company cited at IDC report in its launch
announcement, which estimated that users would capture 1.6 trillion
digital images in 2015, of which 70 percent would be taken on mobile
devices, as evidence of the demand for mobile storage products.
The
new iXpand is completely redesigned and rearchitected, according to the
company.
The body is now only as wide as a standard USB plug, and the
Lightning connector on the other end has been designed to work without
needing to take an iPhone or iPad out of its case.
The device will be
available in storage capacities up to 128GB and does not have a battery
and require charging, unlike the first-generation model .
USB 3.0 speed
is now supported when the device is plugged in to a PC.
Pricing for the
iXpand Flash drive starts at Rs.
3,990 for 16GB and goes up to Rs.
9,990
for 128GB.
SanDisk's free companion app allows users to see music
files stored on the iXpand Flash Drive as well as on the device's
iTunes library and play both.
Users can also take photos and record
video through the app in order to save them directly to the iXpand Flash
Drive, which keeps space clear on the iOS device and allows for easy
sharing.
The app shows you when you last backed up your data, and
encryption allows you to mark specific files which can only then be
opened if you use a passcode or fingerprint.
A new 200GB version
of the SanDisk Connect Wireless Stick was also announced.
This product
lets users share files across devices regardless of OS or platform,
using Wi-Fi.
The bundled app now supports media streaming using Apple's
AirPlay, Google's Chromecast, and Amazon Fire TV.
It costs Rs.
9,990 and
will be available exclusively through Amazon in India.
SanDisk
also unveiled the new Ultra USB Type-C Flash Drive, designed for use
with newer smartphones and PCs, including ultra-slim laptops and tablets
which have only USB Type-C ports.
USB 3.1 Gen 1 speeds are supported,
and capacities range from 16GB to 128GB.
Prices start at Rs.
1,290 and
go up to Rs.
4,290, and all versions are covered by a 5-year warranty.
The
SanDisk Ultra Dual USB Drive 3.0 offers a standard USB 3.0 connector on
one end and a Micro-USB connector at the other, allowing for use with
USB-OTG compliant devices.
The 128GB device costs Rs.
3,390 and is
available only on Flipkart for now.
Finally, the company also
announced a new Extreme PRO microSDXC UHS-II card, which it claims
offers the world's highest transfer speed.
The card is designed to be
used with action cameras, drones, and other devices which push 4K or
high-framerate video, resulting in massive file sizes.
The company says
that this microSD card can withstand shock, extreme temperatures, water,
and even x-rays.
It comes with a USB 3.0 card reader and a lifetime
limited warranty.
The 64GB version costs Rs.
9,990 while the 128GB
version costs Rs.
18,990.
Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news, product
reviews, and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.