IDFC recently announced its decision to divest its 10% stake in HDFC Life—the insurance JV with UKbased Standard Life—through the public offer route.
This could well open the floodgates for similar announcements from other insurers, offering retail investors an opportunity to own a share in the $50 billion Indian life insurance pie.Activity in the sector picked up post the passage of the amended insurance Act, which allows foreign partners to own up to 49% stake in Indian insurance firms.
Insurers like ICICI Prudential, HDFC Life, Birla Sun Life, Reliance Life and Bharti-AXA have seen foreign partners raising their stakes, paving the way for concrete valuations .
However, for retail investors, insurance valuation remains a complex affair.
"Even institutional investors find it difficult to evaluate life insurance financials," says Sanket Kawatkar, Principal and Life Insurance Practice Leader, Milliman India, an actuarial and consulting firm.
What you need to know To begin with, you need to understand terms like embedded value, persistency ratio and solvency margins , among other things.
Though some basic principles are universal.
"The most appropriate methodology for valuing any business is the discounted cash flow approach," says Abizer Diwanji, Partner and National Leader, Financial Services, EY.
In life insurance parlance, the term is Appraisal Value—accounting for value of new business, policies already sold and the net worth.
The commonly-used methodology is the embedded value-based approach.
"Embedded value is calculated by using present value of future profits and adjusted net asset value.
The other method could be gross premium value on inforce business," says Kalpesh Mehta, Partner, Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
Embedded value as determined by the reporting actuary will be part of the offer document.
However, when an IPO is announced, the price band could be determined by the bidding process.
"Investors will be asked to bid based on information put out by companies.
Theoretical valuation will include embedded value of business," says Kawatkar.
They will have to follow the methodology laid out under the actuarial practice standards for insurers going public.
The thumb rules If that sounds too complicated, you can always look at certain parameters that indicate the insurer's health—market share, profits, persistency ratio, expenses ratio, guarantees offered on investmentcum-insurance plans and solvency margins, among other things.
A high persistency ratio indicates that a large number of policyholders are renewing their policies.
Similarly, a controlled expense ratio would be considered a positive.
However, Kawatkar cautions against taking these numbers at face value.
A high expense ratio does not necessarily mean low profits.
Likewise, low persistency need not mean lower profits.
"What is to be noted is how the actual figures compare with the assumptions that the company would have had made at the start of the year," he says.
You will also need to take into account the foreign ownership in the company that is going public.
"It would be important to assess the headroom available for foreign investment in the proposed insurer," says Diwanji.
The other aspects Other parameters to focus on are the insurer as well as its parent company's reputation, governance structure and transparency.
The strength of its distribution network is critical, as insurance is a push product, dependent on agents for sales.
Insurers with bank tie-ups have an upper hand as the continuous business assures growth.
With insurance companies readying to go public, a crash course in understanding their valuations is due.