The original minds behind Apple's virtual assistant Siri, Dag Kittlaus and Adam Cheyer are working on a new AI-powered virtual assistant called Viv, according to The Washington Post.
TOI Tech | May 5, 2016, 02.02 PM ISTGoogle and Facebook have already offered to buy the upcoming virtual assistant Viv.NEW DELHI: The original minds behind Apple's virtual assistant Siri, Dag Kittlaus and Adam Cheyer are working on a new AI-powered virtual assistant called Viv, according to The Washington Post.Viv is believed to be much better than Siri or any other virtual assistants currently available.
The report suggests that engineers tested Viv by using it to order four made-to-order pizzas.
When the AI bot asked whether the users would like toppings or not, the engineers, eight in number, said everything from Pepperoni to Half cheese to Caesar salad.
Excited with the result, they further added more related commands to Viv such as 'add more toppings' and 'remove toppings.'
The order arrived within 40 minutes.
Artificial Intelligence-powered drone to click photos, make videos If you love aerial photography and videography, here comes an artificial-intelligence (AI)-powered drone that can take 13MP photos and make 4K video.
This was just a demo of Viv's prowess, and more details will be available once the virtual assistant is unveiled next week.The report further adds that Viv can do a lot more than just ordering pizza, thanks to its integration with third-party services such as Uber and Zocdoc.
This makes it quite similar to Amazon's Alexa .
Artificial intelligence used to combat poaching The research builds on the idea of green security games - the application of game theory to wildlife protection.
Game theory uses models of conflict and cooperation between rational decision-makers to predict the behaviour of adversaries and plan optimal approaches for containment.
There is a huge market for virtual assistants and tech behemoths like Google , Microsoft and Facebook are betting big on it.
Surprisingly, Google and Facebook have already offered to buy the upcoming virtual assistant Viv.Recommended By Colombia
Recommended By Colombia