Following the successful launch of 4G services, Vodafone SuperNet 4G will be available across 1,000 towns this year.
Vodafone India has announced the next phase of its 4G rollout will cover the key circles Gujarat, Haryana, UP (E) and West Bengal apart from five circles of Mumbai, Delhi & NCR, Kolkata, Karnataka and Kerala where it is already present
Announcing this second phase of 4G rollout, Sunil Sood, MD and CEO, Vodafone India said, “The response from customers who have experienced our 4G services in the five circles is positive and encouraging.
With the expansion of Vodafone SuperNet 4G across 9 circles, our customers in Gujarat, Haryana, UP(E) and West Bengal too will enjoy the multiple benefits of the world’s largest 4G network.
As we expand our 4G coverage across the country, we remain steadfast in our commitment to offer our customers a world-class data and voice experience.”
The nine circles of Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Karnataka, Kerala, Haryana, Gujarat, UP (E) and West Bengal, together contribute to just under 70 percent of Vodafone India’s data revenues.
Vodafone has recently modernized and upgraded its entire network across the country to Vodafone SuperNet, empowering customers to enjoy a superior network experience and remain confidently connected at all times, for their voice and data needs.
Speaking about Vodafone SuperNet, Sunil Sood, MD and CEO, Vodafone India said, “In the past year, significant investments have been made to expand, enhance and upgrade our network enabling us to provide a better and richer network experience to 198 million customers.
We will continue our focus on deploying multiple technologies- 2G, 3G and 4G to cater to the myriad connectivity needs of both urban and rural customers.
Our future-fit network is ready to service the rising demands of an increasingly Digital India.”
Partnering with leading global technology infrastructure service providers, Vodafone has invested in building a robust and resilient network architecture.
Vodafone SuperNet incorporates some of the latest technological advancements to support the growing traffic volumes and need for speed from customers.
Vodafone Gearing To Launch 4G Early-December Vodafone Launches SuperNet 4G Network In Navi Mumbai Vodafone Launches 4G-Ready SIMs In Bengaluru Vodafone Launches 4G In Kochi; Ties With Apple, Samsung, Micromax, Microsoft, Lava & Xolo TRAI Finalizes Spectrum Price For 700, 800, 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 & 2500 MHz Bands
Pravin Prashant has been tracking the industry for last 20 years.
Prior to TeleAnalysis, he worked as Editor, Voice & Data, India’s premier telecom magazine published by CyberMedia.
He served as Vice President – Strategy for Elets Technomedia, a publisher focusing on Government, Education and Health vertical and also co-founded iGovernment.in, India’s first comprehensive portal on government vertical which was later sold to Nine Dot Nine Mediaworx.