Sarah Tew/CNET
Garmin on Wednesday announced its newest training watch, the Forerunner 735XT.
The GPS-equipped sport watch replaces the Forerunner 920XT and is designed for multisport athletes, specifically those who compete in triathlons.
The watch is similar to the Forerunner 235 , which is a good thing given that it's my favorite running watch.
It features a built-in optical heart-rate sensor and includes GPS, all-day activity tracking for things like steps and calories burned, and can show notifications from an iPhone or Android smartphone.
It also includes access to Connect IQ, Garmin's third-party app store that lets you download watch faces, widgets and apps.
In addition to running, the 735XT can track cycling, swimming, hiking, cross country skiing, strength training, paddle boarding and cardio.
There's also a special multisport mode for triathlons that can be programmed to automatically change sport profiles.
Sarah Tew/CNET
As with its predecessor, the watch is compatible with Garmin's Vector pedal-based power meter system and its various Varia cycling accessories.
It can also be paired with the company's HRM heart rate strap to provide advanced running dynamics and measure things like stride length, ground contact time balance, vertical ratio and more.
As with all of Garmin's watches, the 735XT can be worn both in the shower and while swimming, thanks to the 5 ATM water-resistant rating .
In the water, the watch can measure distance, pace, stroke count, stroke rate and more.
Battery life is said to be up 14 hours with an active GPS signal or up to 11 days in watch and activity tracking mode.
The Forerunner 735XT is available now for $450.
You can also pick up a running bundle that includes the advanced HRM-Run strap for $500 or a special tri-bundle that include both an HRM-Tri and waterproof HRM-Swim strap for $600.
Samsung Galaxy S7
Apple iPad Pro (9.7-inch)
4.5 stars iPad Pro (9.7-inch) review: The best iPad ever can't quite kill your laptop -- yet
Microsoft Surface Pro 4
4 stars Surface Pro 4 review: Still the king of tablet PCs
Cree Connected LED Bulb
Part Number: CNETGarminForerunner735XT
MSRP:$449.99
About The Author
Dan Graziano is an associate editor for CNET.
His work has appeared on BGR, Fox News, Fox Business, and Yahoo News, among other publications.
When he isn't tinkering with the latest gadgets and gizmos, he can be found enjoying the sights and sounds of New York City.