Image copyrightPeriscopeImage caption
Periscope attracted more than 10 million users within a year of being launched
An investigation into the death of a 19-year-old French woman who reportedly live-streamed herself taking her own life has opened in France.
The woman, who had been using the smartphone app Periscope, reportedly jumped under a train at a station about 25 miles (40 km) south of Paris on Tuesday.
The video is no longer available on Periscope, which is owned by Twitter.
Twitter said it did not comment "on individual accounts".
According to French newspapers, the young woman died in Egly, Essone at about 15:30 GMT on 10 May.
Previously, she had filmed herself in her flat discussing how she intended to make a video to "send a message", warning younger viewers not to continue to watch what would be a "shocking" act, it was reported.
During the filming, the young woman claimed to have been raped and named her attacker, according to the reports.
The death is currently being investigated and the data on the young woman's phone is being looked at, said local prosecutor Eric Lallement.
It is not the first time that Periscope has been linked to inappropriate content.
In April, a woman from Ohio was charged with streaming the rape of a teenage girl via the app.
She denied the charge.
A woman who streamed herself as she drove home while intoxicated
A murderer who broadcast footage of himself from a US jail for several days before officers confiscated his phone
Teenagers who were arrested after streaming footage of themselves robbing a van in Utah
Periscope has strict guidelines about content that is allowed and also provides a link to allow users to report issues.
It does not monitor the feeds around the clock, although it has previously said that it was able to respond "within minutes".
The Samaritans helpline is available 24 hours a day for anyone in the UK struggling to cope.
It provides a safe place to talk where calls are completely confidential.
The Survivors' Trust provide support and signposting for women, men and children who are survivors of rape, sexual violence or childhood sexual abuse.
In France, SOS Amitie offers a similar service to the Samaritans.